---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.1 Cloud and Virtualization Overview
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>In IT, what is a cloud?</li>
<li>What are clouds made of?</li>
<li>What is virtualization?</li>
<li>What is a hypervisor?</li>
<li>What is the difference between Type 1 and Type 2 hypervisors?</li>
<li>What are the three types of virtualization?</li>
<li>What is a virtual machine?</li>
<li>What is a container?</li>
<li>What services are available in the cloud?</li>
<li>What is the difference between block and blob storage?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

- Install a hypervisor

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Term</th>
  <th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Hypervisor</td>
  <td>
    Software that implements the virtualization of computers and
    operating systems.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Full virtualization</td>
  <td>
    A type of virtualization that presents a full set of virtualized
    hardware.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Paravirtualization</td>
  <td>
    A type of virtualization where the guest operating system
    communicates directly with the host's physical hardware.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Hardware-assisted virtualization</td>
  <td>
    A type of virtualization where the hosts hardware handles some of
    the virtualization that the hypervisor normally performs.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Container</td>
  <td>
    A consistent runtime environment that houses software applications.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Cloud service</td>
  <td>
    A service obtained from a location that is not local, like the
    internet.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 13.1.1 Cloud and Virtualization Overview: Part 1

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Cloud and Virtualization Overview: Part 1 00:00-00:52
If you look online, you'll find cartoons where a young child asks, "What are clouds made of?" and his parent replies, "Linux servers, mostly."

The truth is, a lot of the IT services available in the cloud are provided by servers that run a Linux operating system. To provide these services, Linux might be running on bare metal hardware. It might be a host for virtual machines. Or it might run as a virtual machine. The services provided by these servers can vary from a specific application to a single server dedicated to a single customer to a whole enterprise infrastructure that includes a computing framework and a network framework.

As a Linux administrator, you should be able to describe cloud and virtualization concepts and compare different cloud and virtualization technologies.

In this video, we're going to talk about virtualization. We'll cover cloud concepts and technologies in another video.

Traditional Computing Model 00:52-01:50
If you have ever purchased your own desktop or laptop computer, you understand the traditional computing model. Your computer runs an operating system, like Linux or Windows. Your OS interacts with the computer hardware, takes care of the disks and file system, and does other housekeeping tasks. The software applications installed on the computer let you perform your day-to-day work or provide entertainment. The key idea is that a single operating system has full control over all the hardware resources in the computer.

While you may enjoy the lightning speed of your new computer, this computing model is inefficient. Unless you're using some hardware-intensive applications, such as a video editor, it's likely that much of your computer's hardware sits idle, even when you're multitasking between several applications. To further illustrate this inefficiency problem, suppose you purchase some costly servers. You wouldn't want these servers to sit idly when they could be doing more computing work, offering more services, and responding a larger number of users.

Virtualization 01:50-02:19
One technology that you can use to improve efficiency, especially on a server, is virtualization. With virtualization, you can pool multiple operating systems on the same physical hardware. Each operating system runs independently and runs its own set of applications. These independent operating systems are called virtual machines, or VMs. You'll also hear them called guest operating systems. When you run multiple VMs, the demand for hardware resources increases, resulting in better hardware utilization.

Type 1 Hypervisor 02:19-02:40
You can implement virtualization using special software called a hypervisor. Hypervisors come in two types. This image shows Type 1 hypervisor. It's often called a native or bare-metal hypervisor. It runs directly on the computer's hardware to manage the guest VMs. If you're familiar with Microsoft Hyper-V or VMware ESX, both are Type 1 hypervisors.

Type 2 Hypervisor 02:40-03:06
A Type 2 hypervisor is a software application that runs on top of a conventional operating system to manage the guest VMs. When a guest VM needs to interact with the host hardware, it must do so through the hypervisor and then through the host operating system. VMware Workstation, Oracle VM VirtualBox, Parallels Desktop for Mac, and the open source QEMU product are Type 2 hypervisors.

Linux-Based Hypervisors 03:06-03:41
Here's where it gets tricky. Two of the popular Linux-based hypervisors, Xen and KVM, are advertised as Type 1 hypervisors. However, both are installed on a normal Linux distribution, and both tap into the open-source QEMU emulation features. And when you reboot them after installation, they both have the look and feel of a Linux operating system. In reality, both Xen and KVM modify the Linux kernel so that, while they have the look and feel of Linux, the hypervisor functionality is part of the kernel. This kernel manages guest VMs and interfaces directly with the host hardware, making them Type 1 hypervisors.

Types of Virtualization 03:41-05:05
All VMs are not virtualized in the same in the way. There are three types of virtualization environments: full virtualization, paravirtualization, and hardware-assisted virtualization. In full virtualization, the hypervisor presents a virtual hardware environment, which emulates a physical hardware environment. The guest operating system interacts with this virtual hardware as if it's physical hardware. It doesn't see any difference. Full virtualization provides the best isolation and security for VMs, but it comes at a cost: it takes extra time and processing power to provide virtual hardware emulation.

Paravirtualization improves performance by allowing the guest operating system to communicate directly with some of the host's physical hardware. You can implement paravirtualization by modifying the guest operating system with special device drivers. Both Xen and KVM offer recompiled paravirtual guest operating images that are more efficient than a fully virtualized equivalent.

Hardware vendors have developed features to make virtualization even more efficient. Various features allow the hardware to handle some of the virtualization processing the hypervisor would normally perform. Application requests for hardware resources can be sent directly to the hardware layer instead of being translated through both the guest operating system and the hypervisor. Hardware-assisted virtualization greatly improves a full virtualization environment.

Container Virtualization 05:05-06:05
There's another category of virtualization that has gained popularity recently, container virtualization. You may have noticed that each virtual machine requires a guest operating system. This requirement keeps each VM isolated and prevents interactions between applications running on different virtual machines. These multiple operating systems not only introduce computational overhead, but also require you to purchase additional licenses.

A better solution to this problem is container virtualization. Containers are defined as consistent runtime environments. You create containers using special software called a container engine. In each container, you install an application and all of its dependencies, including libraries, other binaries, and configuration files that are required to run the application. The benefit of this container is that the application is isolated from other applications running in other containers. This is good for security and portability. A container can be saved and easily ported to other container environments.

Containers vs. Virtual Machines 06:05-07:16
If you compare containers with virtual machines, you'll see that each has its benefits and shortcomings. First, containers are more lightweight and use fewer resources than virtual machines. Virtual machines are portable between different hypervisors; containers are only portable between different families of operating systems. Generally, you can save a virtual machine running in one hypervisor environment and run it in another hypervisor environment, even if the two hypervisors are from different software vendors. Conversely, an application that's containerized in a Windows environment can't be run by a Linux container engine.

A container may only occupy a few megabytes, whereas a virtual machine with its own operating system might take up several gigabytes. That means a single server can host many more containers than virtual machines. Also, a virtual machine may take several minutes to boot, while a containerized application only takes a few seconds to initialize. It's common for a container to be instantiated at the last second and then removed when it's no longer needed.

Containers also make it easy to modularize applications. You can create containers with simple applications that are built into a larger system. Then you can change one application without rebuilding the entire system.

Summary 07:16-07:51
So, let's review. In this video, we described virtualization and how virtual machines are implemented by a hypervisor. We identified two types of hypervisors that manage virtual machines. A type 1 hypervisor runs on bare metal hardware. A type 2 hypervisor runs on an operating system. We discussed the three types of virtualization: full virtualization, paravirtualization, and hardware-assisted virtualization. We ended by illustrating container virtualization and compared containers with virtual machines.

## 13.1.2 Cloud and Virtualization Overview: Part 2

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Cloud and Virtualization Overview: Part 2 00:00-00:26
In this video, we're going to discuss cloud technologies.

An individual, a small company, or a large enterprise can choose to build and maintain their own local IT infrastructure. This can be a monumental task with the hardware, software, and human expertise required. Faced with these challenges, many individuals and organizations are turning to cloud services and technologies as an alternative solution.

The Cloud and Cloud Services 00:26-01:18
Every organization has local IT resources, like desktop or laptop computers and a local network. But today, many IT resources, including hardware, software, and networking, can be delivered over the cloud. Although cloud services can be delivered through a dedicated WAN, most people rightly equate the cloud with the internet.

When you focus on cloud services, the cloud can be defined as the hardware, networks, storage devices, and interfaces that deliver computing as a service. If you're receiving services from a location that is not local, then you're using a cloud service.

The cloud that you see here might be offered by a cloud provider, a vendor that offers cloud services. It's composed of things like computing hardware, virtual machines, virtual containers, and networks. It can include storage devices, applications, and the special interfaces that allow you to connect to these cloud services from a local device.

Cloud Service Categories 01:18-01:44
You can divide cloud services into categories. These categories are often listed with the suffix "aaS", which stands for "as a Service." The three main cloud service categories are IaaS, Infrastructure as a Service; Paas, Platform as a Service; and SaaS, Software as a Service. Other notable services are CasS, Containers as a Service, and FasS, Function as a Service. The key thing to remember is that cloud services are separate from local devices.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) 01:44-02:04
Let's begin by looking at Infrastructure as a Service, or IaaS.

IaaS is the delivery of what we traditionally associate with computer hardware as a service. It provides client storage and computing resources. Essentially, you can rent storage space in the cloud instead of having to go out and buy a quantity of hard drives that you install and use locally.

Block and Blob Storage 02:04-02:50
Cloud providers offer two types of cloud storage, block storage and blob storage. Block storage is like traditional drive space. It might be offered like a network drive or as a drive that's accessed by a cloud computing resource. Block storage stores files in directories in the same fashion as any other local file system.

Blob is short for binary large object. Blobs can be any type of data, like documents, video and audio, or backup data. You don't store and retrieve blob data in the same way you would on a network drive. Instead, blob storage is managed from a dashboard or webpage. As you upload files, each file or blob is given a URL that's used to access or download the blob. This is especially useful because that URL can be used as a link in other websites.

Computing Power 02:50-03:23
Like cloud storage, you can use computing power from the cloud instead of buying a new server to do a particular job. You simply rent time from an IaaS cloud service provider instead of purchasing new hardware. This saves you money up front and provides flexibility, scalability, and elasticity. For example, if you start a new project that requires a sizable amount of storage and computing power, but for a limited amount of time, you can easily scale up. And when you're done with that project and you don't need that storage or computing power, you can scale back down. You only pay for what you need, and nothing more.

Platform as a Service (PaaS) 03:23-04:31
Platform as a Service, or PaaS, offers a complete development environment. Basically, it's an environment that you can use to create cloud-ready business applications. The cloud service provider delivers an entire solution stack. This solution stack is an integrated set of software that provides the developer with everything they need to build an application.

PaaS is an outgrowth of the traditional concept of web hosting. If you've used a web hosting provider in the past, you know that most of them provide you with a web development interface you can use through a web browser to build your webpage.

PaaS is similar. Instead of just giving you the ability to build websites, it provides you with a complete development environment to create entire integrated application suites. Once again, the primary benefit of choosing this option is that your development and deployment activities take place entirely in the cloud, so you don't have to manage or maintain local systems.

Some cloud services provide development process features, like software design, software development, testing, and deployment. Just as with Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service provides you with the flexibility and the elasticity you need to scale up when you need resources and scale back when you're done.

Software as a Service (SaaS) 04:31-05:15
Software as a Service is typically designed for an average end user. SaaS can provide applications that end users need to do their day-to-day work. Instead of installing the applications locally on their hard drive, users generally open a web browser and go to their cloud service provider. Within that browser, they run the application they need to use maybe a word processor, presentation software, or spreadsheet software. A good example of Software as a Service is Office 365, which offers an online version of the Microsoft Office Suite.

One of the other key advantages of SaaS is that you can try new software without committing to it. Often, a SaaS provider will allow you to try out an application and pay only for the time you use it. If you like it, you can contract an agreement with the provider.

Linux and Cloud Services 05:15-05:42
With a basic understanding of cloud services, let's turn our attention to how Linux is used to provide those services.

It's estimated that Linux powers 90 percent of the public cloud. But if you've walked through the offices of many schools and businesses, you you've probably seen that their desktops and laptops are running a Windows operating system and using the Microsoft Office Suite. You might think, "Ninety percent? How is that possible?" Let's examine a few use cases and see where Linux hides.

Network Storage as a Service 05:42-06:18
Most companies tell employees to store important documents on a network drive. This way, other employees can view and share the documents. Additionally, network storage is much more reliable. The document is stored on redundant drives and backed up properly.

If the company has purchased storage from a cloud provider, the network drive is virtual. The data in that network drive resides on physical hardware in the cloud provider's data center. The cloud provider's infrastructure, which offers that network drive, most likely includes a physical server connected to physical drives. And what operating system is that server running? Most likely, it's Linux.

Web Hosting and PaaS 06:18-07:43
Let's look at another scenario. Suppose a company contracts with a cloud provider to host a website. That website is to be integrated with a database, also hosted by the cloud provider. Finally, the company requests a development platform with all the tools to develop and test new website features that will be migrated to the company's website periodically. Does the cloud provider purchase specific hardware and software when it brings on this company as a new customer?

Most likely, the cloud provider already has a pool of servers and storage devices along with the network infrastructure and interfaces that can be used to provide these services. Many of the servers in this pool run Linux. If a web service is needed, it could be run on a virtual machine that is a guest on a bare metal Linux-based hypervisor. The database service could also be run inside a container offered by a Linux-based container engine running on a Linux operating system. And that operating system could be running on bare metal or within a virtual machine.

Likewise, the development platform could be a single server running as a virtual machine. Even if this virtual machine runs a Windows operating system, the underlying hypervisor will likely be Linux-based. If the development platform is made up of multiple applications, these could be run in containers, again, from a Linux-based container engine.

Whether the claim that Linux powers 90 percent of the public cloud is plausible or not, it's very clear that Linux provides a major share of cloud services.

Summary 07:43-08:07
So, let's review what we discussed. As a Linux administrator, you should be aware of the cloud services that Linux provides. In this video, we defined the cloud and cloud services. We listed the categories of cloud services, including IaaS, PaaS, and SaaS. We ended by illustrating how Linux is used to provide cloud services.

## 13.1.3 Install Hypervisor

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Install Hypervisor 00:00-00:12
In this demonstration, we'll show you how to install the KVM virtualization software onto an Ubuntu system.

Review Requirements 00:12-00:39
First, we want to verify that our system supports virtualization. We can actually install a package that'll do this for us. Type sudo apt install -y cpu-checker. Once the package is installed, we run the kvm-ok command. If the terminal returns a message reading "KVM acceleration can be used", it means we've verified that our processor supports virtualization.

Install the Virtualization Packages 00:39-01:50
Okay, let's start by typing sudo apt install -y qemu-kvm virt-manager libvirt-daemon-system libvirt-clients virtinst bridge-utils. And we should review before we press Enter. We'll be installing several packages. The first is qemu-KVM. This is an open-source virtualization package that's the core program for virtualization in Linux. And virt-manager is a program that lets you manage virtualization on your machine with a GUI. libvirt-daemon-system and libvirt-clients are libraries of configuration files needed to run both of these. virtinst is a command line utility for controlling virtual machines. Lastly, bridge-utils is used for creating and managing bridge devices.

Okay, so now I think we're good to press Enter. Our apt will resolve any additional dependencies that we need.

Start and enable libvirtd 01:50-02:14
Once all the packages are installed, we need to start their services and enable them at bootup. To do that, run sudo systemctl enable --now libvirtd. This starts and enables the service at the same time. We can run systemctl status on libvirtd to see that it's running.

Add Users to Groups 02:14-02:41
Lastly, we want to verify that our current user is in the kvm and libvirt user groups so they can manage and create VMs. Run sudo usermod -aG kvm $USER and sudo usermod -aG libvirt $USER. The USER environment variable will use the name of the user that's currently logged in.

Configure a Network Bridge 02:41-03:39
Now, for our virtual machines to connect directly to our network, we need to create a bridge between our Linux system's network adapter and the VMs' virtual network adapter. First, we should change directories to /etc/netplan/. Using the ls command, we see a configuration file here named 00-installer-config.yaml. This could be called something different on your installation, just so you know. Open the file using sudo and a text editor. We need to add a bridge configuration at the bottom, above the version 2 part. There's a large amount of text that'll need to be typed in. For me, I'll just copy and paste from a text document.

Okay, once the changes have been made, write to the file and exit the text editor. Then we run sudo netplan apply. Once the command has run successfully, we're ready to begin creating VMs.

Summary 03:39-03:49
That's it for now. In this demo, we showed you how to install the KVM virtualization manager.

## 13.1.4 Linux Cloud and Virtualization Facts

As a Linux administrator, you should be able to describe cloud and virtualization concepts and compare different cloud and virtualization technologies.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Virtualization and hypervisors</li>
   <li>Types of virtualization</li>
   <li>Container virtualization</li>
   <li>Comparison of containers and virtual machines</li>
<li>Cloud service categories</li></ul>

### Virtualization and Hypervisors

The traditional computing model involves an operating system that interacts directly with the computer hardware. This model is inefficient. Virtualization improves the efficiency of a server. Virtualization:

<ul>
<li>
Pools multiple operating systems on the same physical hardware.
<ul>
  <li>
    Each operating system runs independently and runs its own set of
    applications.
  </li>
  <li>
    The independent operating systems are called virtual machines, or
    VMs.
  </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
Is implemented by hypervisor software.
<ul>
  <li>
    A Type 1 Hypervisor:
    <ul>
      <li>Is also called a native or bare-metal hypervisor.</li>
      <li>
        Runs directly on the computer's hardware to manage the guest
        VMs.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    A Type 2 Hypervisor is a software application that runs on top of a
    conventional operating system to manage the guest VMs.
  </li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

### Types of Virtualization

There are three types of virtualization environments:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Virtualization Environment</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Full virtualization</td>
  <td>
    Full virtualization:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Presents a virtual hardware environment, which emulates a
        physical hardware environment.
      </li>
      <li>Provides the best isolation and security for VMs.</li>
      <li>
        Requires extra time and processing power to provide virtual
        hardware emulation.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Paravirtualization</td>
  <td>
    Paravirtualization:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Improves performance by allowing the guest operating system to
        communicate directly with some of the host's physical hardware.
      </li>
      <li>
        Is implemented by modifying the guest operating system with
        special device drivers.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    Hardware-assisted
    <br />
    virtualization
  </td>
  <td>
    Hardware-assisted virtualization:
    <ul>
      <li>Greatly improves a full virtualization environment.</li>
      <li>
        Handles some of the virtualization processing that the
        hypervisor would normally perform.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Container Virtualization

Containers are defined as consistent runtime environments. You create containers using special software called a container engine. Each container:

<ul><li>Includes applications, libraries, other binaries, and configuration files.</li>
<li>Is isolated from other applications running in other containers.</li>
<li>Can be saved and easily ported to other container environments.</li></ul>

### Comparison of containers and virtual machines

Containers and virtual machines have benefits and shortcomings.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Virtualization Characteristic</th>
  <th>Containers</th>
  <th>Virtual Machines</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Size</td>
  <td>Smaller</td>
  <td>Larger</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Resource use</td>
  <td>Use fewer hardware and software resources</td>
  <td>Use more hardware and software resources</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Portability</td>
  <td>Ports to same family of operating system</td>
  <td>Ports to other operating systems and hypervisors</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Startup</td>
  <td>Quick startup</td>
  <td>Longer bootup</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Modularity</td>
  <td>
    Simple applications easily added and removed to build larger systems
  </td>
  <td>Operating system and applications added to one system</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Cloud Service Categories

Cloud services are services that are obtained from a location that is not local (that is, in the cloud). The cloud can be defined as the hardware, networks, storage devices, and interfaces that deliver computing as a service. You can divide cloud services into categories.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Cloud Service</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>IaaS</td>
    <td>
      Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) is the delivery of traditional
      computer hardware as a service. IaaS provides:
      <ul>
        <li>
          Client storage
          <ul>
            <li>
              Block storage is like traditional drive space. It might be
              offered as a network drive or as a drive that's accessed by
              a cloud computing resource. Block storage stores files in
              directories in the same fashion as any other local file
              system.
            </li>
            <li>
              Blob is short for binary large object. You don't store and
              retrieve blob data in the same way you would on a network
              drive. Instead, blob storage is managed from a dashboard or
              webpage.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          Computing power
          <ul>
            <li>
              You can use computing power from the cloud instead of buying
              a new server to do a particular job. You rent time from an
              IaaS cloud service provider instead of purchasing new
              hardware.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PaaS</td>
    <td>
      <p>
        Platform as a Service (PaaS) offers a complete development
        environment that you can use to create cloud-ready business
        applications. PaaS provides:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>A set of software to build an application</li>
        <li>A web-hosting platform</li>
        <li>A development platform</li>
        <li>Deployment tools</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td height="40">SaaS</td>
    <td height="40">
      <p>
        Software as a Service (SaaS) is designed for the average end user.
        SaaS provides applications that end users need to do their
        day-to-day work. Instead of installing the applications locally on
        their hard drive, users can run applications from the cloud,
        usually within a web browser.
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
