---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.2 Virtual Machines
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is a virtual machine template?</li>
<li>What types of templates are used for virtual machines?</li>
<li>What is bootstrapping?</li>
<li>How is Cloud-init used in bootstrapping?</li>
<li>How are Anaconda and Kickstart used in bootstrapping?</li>
<li>What is the difference between thick and thin virtual disk provisioning?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

- Create a virtual machine

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Term</th>
  <th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Virtual machine (VM) template</td>
  <td>
    A set of files that make up a virtual machine that can be copied to
    create a new virtual machine.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Container template</td>
  <td>
    A set of files that make up a container that can be copied to create
    a new container.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>VM template format</td>
  <td>
    The template format used by a vendor's hypervisor, including VM,
    VMware, OVF, and OVA.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Container template format</td>
  <td>
    The template format used by a vendor's container engine, including
    OCI, Docker, and JSON.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Bootstrapping</td>
  <td>
    The automated process of provisioning a virtual machine with unique
    settings and configurations.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Thick provisioning</td>
  <td>
    The method of pre-allocating the full amount of storage for a
    virtual machine disk.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Thin provisioning</td>
  <td>
    The method of allocating only the space needed for a virtual machine
    disk and allowing the disk to grow as more storage is needed.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Persistent disk volume</td>
  <td>
    A method for preserving the changes to a VM disk volume between VM
    reboots.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Non-persistent disk volume</td>
  <td>
    A method for discarding changes to a VM disk volume so that it
    reverts to a known state when a VM shuts down.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      3.4 Summarize common infrastructure as code technologies
      <ul>
        <li>
          File formats
          <ul>
            <li>YAML Ain't Markup Language (YAML)</li>
            <li>JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        3.5 Summarize container, cloud, and orchestration concepts <br />
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Bootstrapping</li>
        <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
          <ul>
            <li>Cloud-init</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 13.2.1 Virtual Machine Concepts: Part 1

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Virtual Machine Concepts 00:00-00:34
Virtual machines allow you to run multiple operating systems on the same physical hardware using a hypervisor. The process for creating and managing virtual machines depends on the hypervisor you use. As a Linux administrator, you should be familiar with virtual machine concepts that are common to all hypervisor implementations.

In this video, we're going to discuss virtual machine templates. Bootstrapping techniques, VM disk storage, and VM management tools are also essential topics that you need to understand, but we're going to focus on templates right now. Let's get started.

Create a Virtual Machine 00:34-01:08
No matter which hypervisor you use, you can create a virtual machine very quickly. When you create a VM, you simply define the hardware environment and save those settings. When the VM runs, the hypervisor uses those settings to instantiate, or create a new instance of, a hardware environment. The VM then boots in this environment just as if it were running on physical hardware. And just like a new physical computer, you must install the operating system from installation media and then install the applications you need. This installation process can take several minutes and often requires periodic user input.

Virtual Machine Templates 01:08-02:02
To avoid installing the operating system and applications every time you create a new VM, you can create a template. A template is a set of files that make up a VM that already has the operating system and applications installed. To create a new VM, you copy the template to a new location and then tell the hypervisor to run the VM from there. What's remarkable is that the new location can even be a different hypervisor running on a different physical computer.

One challenge with creating templates this way is that the new VM will have the same operating system settings as the original template. This can be a problem because the two machines created from the same template will have the same hostname, the same security identifiers, and even the same IP address, if it was configured statically.

In a minute, we'll see how you can modify the template so that when it boots in the new location, it will prompt you for the settings that will make it unique. Before we do that, let's go over a few common template formats.

Virtual Machine Template Formats 02:02-02:34
Hypervisors from different vendors have different template formats. If you're working with the same hypervisor or the same vendor's hypervisor on another physical machine, this isn't important. Usually, the hypervisor has utilities to export and import your VM templates. The challenge is being able to convert one format to another to accommodate different vendors' hypervisors. Fortunately, most hypervisors conform to industry standards, so this part of the process is usually pretty straightforward.

While this is not an exhaustive list, here are a few important formats.

VM Template 02:34-02:55
The first is Microsoft's VM template. Microsoft has a tool called System Center Virtual Machine Manager, or SCVMM, that can be used to manage Microsoft Hyper-V virtual machines. Templates saved by SCVMM are called VM templates. This can be confusing, since we often refer to a virtual machine as a VM.

VMware Template 02:55-03:08
VMware is another hypervisor vendor. A VMware template consists of a _.vmx configuration file and _.vmdk virtual disk files. It may include other VMware-specific files.

OVF and OVA Template 03:08-03:47
Most hypervisors can export a template using OVF and OVA standards. The OVF standard was formed by an industry working group comprised of over 160 companies and organizations, and it's widely accepted. OVF stands for open virtualization format. The term OVF is used for both the packaging standard and a virtual machine package stored in an OVF package. An OVF package consists of a directory that contains virtual machine files created with the OVF format. Virtual machine templates can be exchanged as OVF packages. They are often sent as an OVA file, which is an OVF directory saved as a tar archive file.

Cloud Templates 03:47-04:15
In the same way that a single virtual machine can be used as a template, a cloud environment, including virtual machines, storage, and networking, can be modularized as a template. A cloud provider can quickly instantiate a set of cloud resources using a template. Many cloud providers use a JSON file or a YAML file to encapsulate these templates. Both JSON and YAML are file formats that are self-describing, making them easy to understand. YAML is considered a superset of JSON.

Container Templates 04:15-04:37
A container image can also be saved as a template, which can be copied and used to create multiple containers, each running the same applications. The Open Container Initiative, or OCI, has published standards for container images. A popular container engine, Docker, has also published a standard. Both the OCI and Docker standards rely on the JSON file format.

Summary 04:37-04:59
So, let's review what we've discussed. In this video, we covered virtual machine templates and listed a few virtual machine template formats: VM templates, VMware templates, OVF and OVA templates, cloud templates that use JSON and YAML file formats, and container templates.

## 13.2.2 Virtual Machine Concepts: Part 2

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Virtual Machine Concepts: Part 2 00:00-00:13
In this video, we're going to talk about virtual machines. Specifically, we're going to cover bootstrapping techniques, virtual machine disk storage, and virtual machine management tools.

Bootstrapping 00:13-01:04
One challenge with creating templates is that all virtual machines created using the same template will have the same settings, including the same hostname and security identifiers, and sometimes even the same IP address. This problem can be solved with bootstrapping. Bootstrapping is the automated process of provisioning a virtual machine with unique settings and configurations. Bootstrapping customizes a virtual machine during installation (or, more specifically, when the virtual machine first boots) without requiring user input.

As a best practice, you should prepare your template by removing SSH host keys, machine identifiers, and any other configurations that need to be unique when you use the template to build a new VM. Then you can use any number of bootstrapping solutions. Two popular bootstrapping technologies that automate the provisioning of new Linux virtual machines are Cloud-init and a combination of Anaconda and Kickstart.

Cloud-init is implemented by installing the cloud-init application on your Linux template.

Cloud-init 01:04-02:30
You then customize the configuration by editing the /etc/cloud/cloud.cfg file. This file controls the cloud-init modules that are run. These modules fall under three configuration stages: the init stage, the config stage, and the final stage. If you don't want a module to run, you delete the line from the cloud.cfg file.

Once you're satisfied with your template, you can clone it to create a new VM.

There's one more step that you perform before starting up the cloned VM. This step is unique to the hypervisor. As the new VM boots, cloud-init takes over. By various means, it retrieves metadata that's used to set the hostname, set the default locale, and generate SSH host keys. Some hypervisors supply this metadata by creating and mounting a cloud-init optical drive. The important idea here is that a good hypervisor provides a user interface to configure this metadata for each new VM.

Finally, cloud-init is used by many cloud providers. If you require a Linux platform, your provider may have a cloud-init dashboard, where you use menu items to supply configurations such as a hostname and the default locale and add user data. When you click Launch, the proper virtual machine template is cloned, and the cloud-init agent customizes the VM according to your specifications. In this way, you can build a custom Linux machine in just a few minutes.

Anaconda and Kickstart 02:30-03:01
Anaconda is an installation program that's used by Fedora, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, and other distributions. It identifies the computer's hardware, creates a file system, and provides a user interface that guides the installation process. Anaconda installations can be scripted with kickstart for unattended installations.

Using kickstart, a Linux administrator creates a single file containing the answers to all the questions that would be asked during a typical installation. This file can be kept on a server and read by individual computers during the Linux installation.

Kickstart File 03:01-03:15
The kickstart file is a simple text file that contains keywords arranged in sections. The sections can be in any order and are not required. Here's a list of the kickstart sections. This list can give you an idea of the types of configurations you can automate with kickstart.

Virtual Machine Disk Storage 03:15-03:38
One of the configurations that can be made during virtual machine creation as well as during bootstrapping is adding virtual storage. A virtual disk is a file or set of files maintained by the host hypervisor that appears as a physical disk to the guest operating system. This makes the virtual machine's disk portable. The disk files can be moved between locations even if the location is on another host hypervisor.

Thick Provisioning 03:38-06:57
When you create a virtual disk, the space for the disk is allocated by the host hypervisor. You can choose to allocate or provision this space in one of two ways.

If you choose thick provisioning, the complete amount of storage capacity is pre-allocated on the hypervisor's physical storage device. For example, if the disk size is to be 10 GB, the full 10 GB plus any overhead is set aside for the virtual disk right from the start. This physical disk space will be unavailable for use by any other virtual machine.

Many administrators choose to use thin provisioning. A thin provisioned virtual disk consumes only the space that it needs initially, and then grows according to demand. The benefits of thin provisioning are that the disk is provisioned quickly and storage space is saved. However, the down side is that overprovisioning disks – assigning virtual disks more space than is physically available – causes the virtual machine to fail if the physical storage space becomes full. Fortunately, most hypervisors will inform you if a physical disk starts to fill up.

Another virtual disk setting offered by hypervisors controls what happens when the virtual machine is shut down. Disk volumes in persistent mode behave like conventional disk drives. All data that's written to the virtual disk is permanent so that it's available when the virtual machine starts again.

You can also configure a virtual disk to be non-persistent. Any data written to the disk is lost when the virtual machine is powered off. This is helpful if you want your virtual machine to always start in the same state for software testing or for doing demonstrations. You keep your virtual disk in persistent mode until your virtual machine is customized properly. Then you shut down the virtual machine and switch the virtual disk to non-persistent mode. Afterwards, every time the virtual machine is shut down, the virtual disk reverts to the state it was in when non-persistent mode was set.

There are three popular toolsets used by Linux-based hypervisors to manage virtual machines: libvirt, virsh, and vmm.

Strictly speaking, libvirt is an open-source application programming interface (API) that's used for creating, monitoring, migrating, starting, and stopping virtual machines. If you're a software developer, you can use the functions and routines provided by the libvirt API to interface with a hypervisor, be it Xen, KVM, or QEMU, to create and control virtual machines. As a Linux administrator, you most likely won't be involved in creating virtualization applications, but you should be aware that many virtualization applications require libvirt and a hypervisor to work properly.

While libvirt's main role is as an API, it also provides a command line tool named virsh for controlling virtualization. The virsh tool has many arguments that are, essentially, commands in and of themselves. For example, the virtsh list command displays the virtual machines running on the hypervisor. The virsh start command starts a virtual machine. And the virsh shutdown command cleanly shuts down a virtual machine.

Virtual Machine Manager is a popular graphical tool for managing virtual machines on a Linux host. It's also known as virt-manager since the graphical interface can be started using the virt-manager command. It also comes with command line tools like virt-install, which is used to provision operating sytems into VMs; virt-clone, which clones existing VMs; and virt-convert, which converts OVF VMs to run with libvert.

Summary 06:57-07:15
So, let's review what we discussed. In this video, we talked about bootstrapping techniques and virtual machine disk storage. We finished by describing a three virtual machine management tools: libvert, virsh and virt-manager.

## 13.2.3 Creating a Virtual Machine

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Create a Virtual Machine 00:00-00:20
In this demonstration, we'll be creating a virtual machine. We need to start by booting up the virtualization manager. Let's run sudo virt-manager to open it. Select File and select New Virtual Machine.

VM Options 00:20-01:07
Okay, we have several options. The first is to do a local install. That's when we have an ISO image or a CD-ROM connected to our local system. We can do a network install via FTP, HTTP, or HTTPS. Or we can import an existing disk image if one exists. Select Forward. We're going to use an ISO image of Windows 10. We'll create the image, press Browse, and we have the Win10 ISO here. Let's go ahead and choose that as the volume. The system, KVM, can automatically detect an operating system. We'll uncheck the box and select Microsoft Windows 10.

RAM, CPU, and Storage 01:07-01:40
We can now set our RAM and CPUs. Let's just set them to the defaults. Click Forward. We want to make sure that Enable Storage is checked. We have the option to create a disk image or create custom storage. A disk image is a virtual hard drive that the virtual machine will use. The disk image default is 40 GB. We'll keep the default settings again. Click Forward. We're asked to name our virtual machine. Once again, we'll keep the defaults and review our selections.

Network 01:40-01:58
We can make our network selection as well. We have the options of NAT, a host device, or a Macvtap device name. In this example, we'll use NAT. We click on Customize configuration before install and choose Finish.

Customize Configuration 01:58-03:36
Now we have more options for creating our virtual machine. In this overview menu, we can have a name, title, and a description. It's always good to have a description. The hypervisor is KVM; we're using a 64-bit architecture. We could choose either BIOS or UEFI for the startup environment. As we make changes, we'll be asked to apply them when switching between menus. Individual settings that we make need to be saved.

We can specify the chipset if the option is available. We can click on CPUs. I'm currently using two. If I wanted to, I could allocate up to four CPUs. Now, you could run into problems if you do this on your machine. That's good to remember. We have several different choices here of what we can choose for our CPUs. Selecting random processors could also cause problems. The best choice is to keep the defaults. Let's apply the changes.

For RAM, I have a total of 8 gigabytes in this system. We can set a maximum memory that the VM can utilize while operating. I could choose to start this virtual machine when I boot my machine up. Let's verify that the disk bus and CD-ROM are using SATA. And we can leave the NIC configurations as they are.

There are other options you can configure. You have tablet configurations if you're using any kind of touch device. There's also display information and things of that nature. I'm going to stick with the defaults for mine

Install Windows 03:36-03:53
Let's start the installation. Okay, so the virtual machine manager is creating the virtual machine. We'll come back when it's complete.

Great! After several minutes of the installation process, we have Windows working inside of our KVM and running on Linux.

Summary 03:53-04:03
And that's it. In this demo, we showed you how to install a virtual machine.

## 13.2.4 Virtual Machine Facts

Virtual machines allow you to run multiple operating systems on the same physical hardware using a hypervisor. As a Linux administrator, you should be familiar with virtual machine concepts that are common to all hypervisor implementations.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Virtual machine templates</li>
<li>Virtual machine template formats</li>
<li>Cloud and container templates</li>
<li>Bootstrapping techniques</li>
<li>Virtual machine disk storage</li>
<li>Virtual machine management tools</li></ul>

### Virtual Machine Templates

No matter which hypervisor you use, you can create a virtual machine very quickly by defining the hardware environment and save those settings. However, the process of installing the operating system can take several minutes and requires user input.

<ul><li>The hypervisor uses your settings to instantiate, or create a new instance of, a hardware environment.</li>
<li>You boot the VM in this environment.</li>
<li>You install the operating system and then install the applications you need.</li></ul>

To avoid installing the operating system and applications every time you create a new VM, you can create a template.

<ul><li>A template is a set of files that make up a VM that already has the operating system and applications installed.</li>
<li>To create a new VM, copy the template to a new location and then tell the hypervisor to run the VM from there.</li></ul>

### Virtual Machine Template Formats

Hypervisors from different vendors have different template formats.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Template Format</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>VM</td>
    <td>
      Microsoft has a tool called System Center Virtual Machine Manager,
      or SCVMM, that can be used to manage Microsoft Hyper-V virtual
      machines. Templates saved by SCVMM are called VM templates. This can
      be confusing, since a virtual machine is referred to as a VM.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>VMware</td>
    <td>
      VMware is a hypervisor vendor. A VMware template consists of a *.vmx
      configuration file and *.vmdk virtual disk files. It may include
      other VMware-specific files.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>OVF and OVA</td>
    <td>
      The OVF standard was formed by an industry working group comprised
      of over 160 companies and organizations, and it's widely accepted.
      <ul>
        <li>OVF stands for open virtualization format.</li>
        <li>
          OVF refers to both the packaging standard and a virtual machine
          package stored in an OVF package.
        </li>
        <li>
          An OVF package consists of a directory that contains virtual
          machine files created with the OVF format.
        </li>
        <li>
          Virtual machine templates can be exchanged as OVF packages.
        </li>
        <li>
          Virtual machine templates are often sent as an OVA file, which
          is an OVF directory saved as a tar archive file.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Cloud and Container Templates

In the same way that a single virtual machine can be used as a template, a cloud environment, including virtual machines, storage, and networking, can be modularized as a template.

<ul><li>A cloud provider can quickly instantiate a set of cloud resources using a template.</li>
<li>Many cloud providers use a JSON file or a YAML file to encapsulate these templates.</li></ul>

A container image can also be saved as a template, which can be copied and used to create multiple containers, each running the same applications.

<ul><li>The Open Container Initiative, or OCI, has published standards for container images.</li>
<li>A popular container engine, Docker, has also published a standard.</li>
<li>Both the OCI and Docker standards rely on the JSON file format.</li></ul>

### Bootstrapping Techniques

One challenge with creating templates is that all virtual machines created using the same template will have the same settings. This problem can be solved with bootstrapping.

<ul><li>Bootstrapping is the automated process of provisioning a virtual machine with unique settings and configurations.</li>
<li>Bootstrapping customizes a virtual machine when the virtual machine first boots without requiring user input.</li></ul>

Two popular bootstrapping technologies that automate the provisioning of new Linux virtual machines are Cloud-init and a combination of Anaconda and Kickstart.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Bootstrapping Technology</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Cloud-init</td>
    <td>
      Cloud-init is implemented by:
      <ul>
        <li>Installing the cloud-init application on a Linux template</li>
        <li>Customizing the /etc/cloud/cloud.cfg file.</li>
        <li>Clone the template to create a new VM.</li>
        <li>
          Supply metadata (hostname, default locale, SSH host keys, etc.)
          by mounting a cloud-init optical drive or through a cloud-init
          interface.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        Cloud-init is also used by many cloud providers that provide a
        cloud-init dashboard to create custom Linux machines.
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Anaconda and Kickstart</td>
    <td>
      <p>
        Anaconda is an installation program that's used by Fedora, Red Hat
        Enterprise Linux, and other distributions.
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Anaconda identifies the computer's hardware, creates a file
          system, and provides a user interface that guides the
          installation process.
        </li>
        <li>
          Anaconda installations can be scripted with kickstart for
          unattended installations.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        Using kickstart, a Linux administrator creates a single file
        containing the answers to all the questions that would be asked
        during a typical installation. This file can be kept on a server
        and read by individual computers during the Linux installation.
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Virtual Machine Disk Storage

One of the configurations that can be made during virtual machine creation as well as during bootstrapping is adding virtual storage. A virtual disk is a file or set of files maintained by the host hypervisor that appears as a physical disk to the guest operating system. You can choose to allocate or provision virtual disk space in one of two ways.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Provisioning Method</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Thick provisioning</td>
    <td>
      If you choose thick provisioning, the complete amount of storage
      capacity is pre-allocated on the hypervisor's physical storage
      device. For example, if the disk size is to be 10 GB, the full 10 GB
      plus any overhead is set aside for the virtual disk right from the
      start. This physical disk space will be unavailable for use by any
      other virtual machine. <br />
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Thin provisioning</td>
    <td>
      Many administrators choose to use thin provisioning. A thin
      provisioned virtual disk consumes only the space that it needs
      initially and then grows according to demand. The benefits of thin
      provisioning are that the disk is provisioned quickly and storage
      space is saved. However, the down side is that over-provisioning
      disks—assigning virtual disks more space than is physically
      available—causes the virtual machine to fail if the physical storage
      space becomes full. Fortunately, most hypervisors will inform you if
      a physical disk starts to fill up.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Another virtual disk setting offered by hypervisors is the disk mode that controls what happens when the virtual machine is shut down.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Disk Mode</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Persistent</td>
  <td>
    Disk volumes in persistent mode behave like conventional disk
    drives. All data that's written to the virtual disk is permanent so
    that it's available when the virtual machine starts again.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Non-persistent</td>
  <td>
    When disks are configured in non-persistent mode, any data written
    to the disk is lost when the virtual machine is powered off.
    Non-persistent mode is useful for software testing or for doing
    demonstrations.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Keep your virtual disk in persistent mode until your virtual
        machine is customized properly.
      </li>
      <li>
        Shut down the virtual machine and switch the virtual disk to
        non-persistent mode.
      </li>
      <li>
        Every time the virtual machine is shut down, the virtual disk
        reverts to the state it was in when non-persistent mode was set.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Virtual Machine Management Tools

There are three popular toolsets used by Linux-based hypervisors to manage virtual machines: libvirt, virsh, and vmm.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Management Tool</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>libvirt</td>
    <td>
      The libvirt software is an open-source application programming
      interface (API) that's used for creating, monitoring, migrating,
      starting, and stopping virtual machines. If you're a software
      developer, you can use the functions and routines provided by the
      libvirt API to interface with a hypervisor to create and control
      virtual machines.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>virsh</td>
    <td>
      The libvirt software also provides a command line tool named virsh
      for controlling virtualization. The virsh tool has many arguments
      that are commands in and of themselves. For example:
      <ul>
        <li>
          The <b>virsh list</b> command displays the virtual machines
          running on the hypervisor.
        </li>
        <li>The <b>virsh start</b> command starts a virtual machine.</li>
        <li>
          The <b>virsh shutdown</b> command cleanly shuts down a virtual
          machine.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td height="40">vmm</td>
    <td height="40">
      <br />
      Virtual Machine Manager (vmm) is a popular graphical tool for
      managing virtual machines on a Linux host. It's also known as
      virt-manager since the graphical interface can be started using the
      <b>virt-manager</b> command. It also comes with command line tools:
      <ul>
        <li>
          The <b>virt-install</b> command is used to provision operating
          systems into VMs.
        </li>
        <li>The <b>virt-clone</b> command clones existing VMs.</li>
        <li>
          The <b>virt-convert</b> command converts OVF VMs to run with
          libvert.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
