---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 13.5 Virtual Networking
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is a virtual switch?</li>
<li>What is a Linux bridge?</li>
<li>What modes are available on a Linux bridge?</li>
<li>What is a multi-homed virtual machine?</li>
<li>What is an overlay network?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

- Configure networking on a virtual machine

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Virtual switch</td>
    <td>A logical network switch built into a hypervisor.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Linux bridge</td>
    <td>A virtual switch in a Linux hypervisor.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Linux bridge mode</td>
    <td>
      One of several ways a Linux bridge can operate, including NAT mode,
      bridged mode, routed mode, and isolated mode.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Multi-homed</td>
    <td>
      A computer or virtual machine with more than one NIC and more than
      one IP address.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Overlay network</td>
    <td>A virtual network built on top of an existing network.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 13.5.1 Virtual Networking Concepts

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Virtual Networking Concepts 00:00-00:34
A hypervisor presents a virtual hardware environment that's used by a virtual machine. One component of that virtual hardware is a virtual network interface card, or virtual NIC. There's no way to connect a physical network cable to a virtual NIC. So how do you connect a virtual machine to a physical network?

We're going to answer that question by describing three virtual networking concepts: virtual switches, bridging, and overlay networks. We're also going to discuss NAT and other virtual switch modes, as well as multi-homed virtual machine considerations.

Virtual Switch 00:34-01:06
Linux-based hypervisors, such as Xen, KVM, and QEMU, provide a software-based virtual network switch. A virtual network switch works just like a physical network switch. The only difference is that you don't use physical cables to connect to the switch. When you create the virtual switch in the hypervisor, you configure it with a software connection to the physical NIC of the host. When you create a VM, you configure it with a software connection to the virtual switch. If other VMs residing on the hypervisor need to communicate with this VM, you can connect them to the same switch.

Linux Bridging 01:06-01:49
Historically, a network bridge divided a network into two segments. This increased the performance of the network by isolating the traffic on each side of the bridge. Only necessary traffic was forwarded across the bridge. Eventually, multi-port bridges evolved into what is now a network switch. A Linux bridge is a virtual switch, and it behaves like a network switch. It also offers additional features, such as NAT.

To implement Linux bridging, you install the bridge-utils software package. This package contains the brctl command line utility. We can use brctl to create and configure virtual switches. GUI-based virtual machine managers provide a graphical interface to create virtual switches and connect both the host and virtual machines to them.

NAT Mode 01:49-02:53
By default, a Linux bridge or virtual switch operates in NAT mode. You may want to use this mode when there's no need for the external network to be aware of your VMs, but the VMs need access to the external network. In NAT mode, your guest VMs use your host's IP address to communicate with the external network. Computers on the external network can't initiate communications to your guest VMs because they only know the host's IP address. When your VM sends a network packet to an address on external network, your host substitutes its own IP address for the VM's IP address and sends the packet. The host keeps track of this communication. When it receives a packet from the external network that's a response to the original message, it forwards it back to the initiating VM.

When a virtual switch operates in bridged mode, all your VMs are configured with IP addresses on the same subnet as your host computer. The virtual switch in this mode acts just like a physical switch and forwards network frames accordingly. This means that all physical machines on the same physical network will be aware of your virtual machines.

Routed Mode 02:53-03:12
When a virtual switch is in routed mode, the host acts as a gateway. This mode may be useful if your virtual machines are located in a firewall's DMZ. You have to configure your VMs with IP addresses in a different subnet than the external network. This may require you to configure static routes that point to your VM's subnet.

Isolated Mode 03:12-03:32
When a virtual switch is in isolated mode, your VMs only communicate with each other. They're disconnected from the external network and even from the host computer. The only way you can access them is using the hypervisor's VM console. This mode may be useful when you're testing the performance of a new system and don't want any external distractions.

Multi-Homed Considerations 03:32-04:05
Physical computers can have multiple NICs connected to multiple subnets to increase performance, use the computer as a network gateway, or use the computer as a network firewall. Virtual machines can also be configured as a multi-homed system with multiple virtual NICs. Depending on your requirements, you could connect each NIC to a separate virtual switch or connect multiple NICs to a single virtual switch. And, depending on your needs, you could link each physical NIC on the host machine to a different virtual switch, or you could link several physical NICs to one virtual switch.

Overlay Networks 04:05-05:22
So, you can network VMs residing on a single host machine by connecting them to the same virtual switch. But what if you wanted VMs on different host machines to be networked in a way that doesn't expose them to the external network? One solution is to implement overlay networking.

An overlay network is a virtual network that's built on top of an existing network. One way to understand how this is done is to think about network packets arranged within other packets that are assembled and dissected as they're moved over physical networks between the sender and the receiver. In this way, you can have multiple layers of abstraction. A virtual network can be overlayed on another virtual network, which can be overlayed on top of a physical network.

Overlay networking is especially important in scalable cloud technologies, where virtual resources like VMs and containers dedicated to one customer reside in the same datacenter asVMs and containers dedicated to other customers. It would be a nightmare to reconfigure physical networks to accommodate even simple customer changes.

Overlay networking makes a network more complex, and it decreases network performance. But the flexibility of adding, moving, and removing virtual assets at different physical locations often makes overlay networking very appealing and well worth the drawbacks.

Summary 05:22-05:47
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we covered virtual networking concepts. We described virtual switches and how they're created using the brctl utility. We introduced the different Linux bridging modes, including NAT mode, bridged mode, and isolated mode. We considered how multi-homed VMs are configured, and we finished by discussing overlay networking.

## 13.5.2 Configuring Networking on a Virtual Machine

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Configure Networking on a Virtual Machine 00:00-00:20
In this demonstration, we'll define virtual machine networking. Now, the virtual machine itself has virtualized networking, but the host machine and the VM need to be networked together first to share network access. Let's start by elevating to the root user so that we can edit our network adapter.

Add a Linux Bridge 00:20-00:44
In order for our virtual machine to connect directly to our network, we need to create a bridge between the Linux network adapter and the VM's network adapter. Let's switch to the /etc/netplan/ directory. Using the ls command, we see a configuration file here named 00-installer-config.yaml. You might see it named differently depending on your installation. Let's open it with a text editor.

Configure the Bridge 00:44-01:32
We need to add the bridge configuration at the bottom of the file, right below the Ethernet configuration. We'll add a bridges: category on a new line. And our new network bridge adapter will need a name. Enter br0: on that next line. Now we need to add physical interfaces that'll be part of the bridge. Type interfaces: [ens33] on another new line. We also want to enable DHCP, so let's type dhcp4: true here.

Once the changes are complete, we write to the file and exit the text editor. Then we run netplan apply. When we run ip a, we see that the bridge is receiving an IP address. That's good. But our Ethernet adapter, ens33, isn't.

Configure the VM 01:32-02:04
We've made the changes on the host machine. Now we need to open the virtual machine manager and create a new VM. Select Local install media and browse for an ISO image. Select the operating system ISO that you want to install and select Forward. Accept the defaults for memory, CPU settings, and storage. On the last page of the setup, we see an option for Network selection. Expand the arrow, and you see that our VM is using our new bridge device, br0. When I accept the changes, the VM installation starts right up.

Summary 02:04-02:16
And that's all there is to it. We showed you how to create a bridge on a host machine and how to use that bridge device within a virtual machine.

## 13.5.3 Virtual Networking Facts

A hypervisor presents a virtual hardware environment that’s used by a virtual machine. Part of that environment is a virtual network.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Virtual switches</li>
<li>Linux bridge modes</li>
<li>Multi-homed considerations</li>
<li>Overlay networks</li></ul>

### Virtual Switches

Linux-based hypervisors (such as Xen, KVM, and QEMU) provide a software-based virtual network switch.

<ul><li>A virtual network switch works just like a physical network switch.
<ul><li>A software connection is made between the virtual switch and the
host's physical NIC.</li>
<li>A software connection is made between the virtual switch and the virtual machine's virtual NIC.</li></ul></li>
<li>A Linux bridge is a virtual switch.
<ul><li>It behaves like a network switch.</li>
<li>It offers additional features, such as NAT.</li>
<li>To implement Linux bridging, install the bridge-utils software package.</li></ul></li></ul>

### Linux Bridge Modes

A Linux bridge can operate in several modes

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Mode</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>NAT</td>
    <td>
      NAT mode is the default mode.
      <ul>
        <li>
          Use this this mode when there’s no need for the external network
          to be aware of your VMs, but the VMs need access to the external
          network.
        </li>
        <li>
          Guest VMs use the host’s IP address to communicate with the
          external network.
        </li>
        <li>
          Computers on the external network can’t initiate communications
          to guest VMs because they only know the host’s IP address.
        </li>
        <li>
          When your VM sends a network packet to an address on external
          network, your host substitutes its own IP address for the VM’s
          IP address and sends the packet.
        </li>
        <li>
          When it receives a packet from the external network that’s a
          response to a guest VM's message, it forwards it back to the
          initiating VM.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Bridged</td>
    <td>
      In bridged mode, all VMs are configured with IP addresses on the
      same subnet as the host computer.
      <ul>
        <li>
          The virtual switch acts like a physical switch and forwards
          network frames accordingly.
        </li>
        <li>
          All physical machines on the same subnet will be aware of the
          virtual machines.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Routed</td>
    <td>
      In routed mode, the host acts as a gateway.
      <ul>
        <li>
          Use this mode if the virtual machines are located in a
          firewall’s DMZ.
        </li>
        <li>
          Configure the VMs with IP addresses in a different subnet than
          the external network.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Isolated</td>
    <td>
      In isolated mode, the VMs only communicate with each other.
      <ul>
        <li>
          The VMs are disconnected from both the external network and from
          the host computer.
        </li>
        <li>
          The VMs can only be accessed using the hypervisor’s VM console.
        </li>
        <li>
          Use this mode when testing the performance of a new system with
          no external distractions.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Multi-Homed Considerations

Physical computers can have multiple NICs connected to multiple subnets to increase performance, use the computer as a network gateway, or use the computer as a network firewall. Virtual machines can also be configured as a multi-homed system with multiple virtual NICs. Depending on your requirements, you can connect each NIC to a separate virtual switch or connect multiple NICs to a single virtual switch. You can link each physical NIC on the host machine to a different virtual switch, or you could link several physical NICs to one virtual switch.

### Overlay Networks

Overlay networks can be used to connect VMs on different host machines in a way that doesn’t expose them to the external network.

<ul>
<li>
  Overlay networks are virtual networks that are built on top of an
  existing network.
</li>
<li>
  Network packets are encapsulated within other packets that are assembled
  and dissected as they’re moved over physical networks.
</li>
<li>
  A virtual network can be overlayed on another virtual network, which can
  be overlayed on top of a physical network.
</li>
<li>
  Overlay networking is especially important in scalable cloud
  technologies, where virtual resources like VMs and containers dedicated
  to one customer reside in the same datacenter as VMs and containers
  dedicated to other customers.
</li>
<li>
  Overlay networking makes a network more complex and decreases network
  performance.
</li>
<li>
  Overlay networks are flexible. Adding, moving, and removing virtual
  assets at different physical locations makes overlay networking very
  appealing and worth the drawbacks.
</li>
</ul>
