---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.2 Linux Help
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What are the differences between the <b >man</b> utility and the <b >info</b> utility?</li>
<li>What types of files are stored in the <b >/usr/share/man</b> directory?</li>
<li>How can you access on-screen help for each command?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Access help resources</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Term</th>
<th scope="col" >Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Man page</td>
<td>A text-based help file for a specific command,
service, or configuration file that shows a command's syntax, options, related files, and commands.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Info node</td>
<td>Text-based help information similar to a man page
but more verbose and emphasizes how to use a Linux command or utility.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Whatis database</td>
<td>A database containing short man page descriptions.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >Exam</th>
<th scope="col" >
Objective</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
<td>1.1 Use command-line utilities
<ul><li>Get help with Linux commands</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.2.1 Linux Help Resources

### Linux Help Resources 00:00-00:32

Command line parameters are one of the most powerful Linux components. Some commands have dozens of options that modify their behavior. It can be a lot to remember. In this video, we'll discuss ways you can get help with commands.

While you can turn to the internet, Linux also has built-in facilities that provide detailed help. They include man, info, and the command line parameter --help. These resources help everyone from the novice user to the most advanced. Let's start with man.

### Manual Pages 00:32-01:08

Most Linux distributions maintain a help system known as the manual pages, or man pages. The Linux community maintains The Linux Documentation Project, which provides help for Linux commands and scripts, and man pages are derived from this documentation. They contain documentation about the operating system, provide details on commands and their parameters, house configuration files, and help with scripting and script commands.

When Linux is installed, a directory structure that contains the Linux manual pages is created. When new packages are installed on the system, those packages install additional help into the man directory.

### Location of Manual Pages 01:08-01:48

The man pages are stored in a directory structure in your Linux filesystem. When new applications or features are added, the man pages are stored in that directory structure. Many Linux distributions store the location in the environmental variable MANPATH. Others may use configuration file /etc/man_db.conf. Check your system documentation to discover how your system is configured.

To find the location of the manual pages on your system, enter the command echo $MANPATH to display where the man pages are stored. Depending on your distro, you may have to examine the /etc/man_db.conf file for the location.

### Manual Sections 01:48-02:28

Together, all the man pages are called the manual. The manual is divided into nine different sections. Section one of the manual provides documentation for programs and shell commands that can be run by any user on the system. Section two covers Unix and C system calls. Section three is for C library functions. Section four documents the special files that are found in the /dev directory. Section five covers file formats and conventions. Section six documents games. Section seven describes miscellaneous conventions. Section eight combines administrative utilities and daemons. And section nine is for the kernel itself.

### Man Page Components 02:28-02:50

Using man is very straightforward. Simply type man at the command prompt followed by what you want help with. For example, suppose you wanted to know more about the pwd command. Since pwd is a general command, its help is stored in the first set of man pages.

Type man pwd at the command prompt, and the man page for pwd is displayed.

### Title 02:50-03:00

The title is the first line in the man page. It lists the name of the utility and the section number it belongs to. In this example, you can see this is from section 1.

### Name 03:00-03:06

The NAME section displays the command name followed by a short description of what function the command performs.

### Synopsis 03:06-03:20

The SYNOPSIS section shows the user how to use the command. In some of the more complex commands or configuration file examples, the synopsis section is much more robust and provides the user with the details of how to use the command correctly.

### Description 03:20-03:45

The DESCRIPTION section is very detailed and provides much more information about how to use the command. In general, all of the command line options are listed by the single letter or word that's used to modify the command's behavior. Many commands have a single-dash option or a double-dash option that's used interchangeably. There's often additional information provided in a note at the bottom of the description section.

### Author 03:45-03:54

The AUTHOR section displays the name of the person who wrote the command, or whatever utility, application, or service is documented on the page.

### Reporting Bugs 03:54-04:07

There may be an optional section called Reporting Bugs. It'll usually provide an URL that you can use to report any bugs you discover while you're using either the utility or application itself or a bug that you discovered within the man page.

### Copyright 04:07-04:20

The copyright section displays details about who owns the copyright for the particular command, utility, service, or application being referenced in the man page. It may also provide redistribution information.

### See Also 04:20-04:53

Most man pages include a SEE ALSO section. This section provides you with a list of other man pages, or even other resources, that are related to the command you have looked up. In this example, it says you may also want to look at getcwd because it performs a function that's somehow related to pwd.

Each man page is unique and contains information only about the command you're looking up. It might contain the sections we've discussed, and it might have even more information. The Linux manual is helpful whether you're just learning Linux or you're a seasoned veteran.

### Man Page Navigation 04:53-05:15

Within the man page, you can use several different keystrokes to navigate through the information. You can use the up and down arrows to scroll up or down a single line at a time. You can use PgDn and PgUp to scroll up or down a page at a time. Or you can use the Home and End keys to move to the beginning or end of the man page. To exit, press the letter q.

### Info Utility 05:15-05:57

In addition to man, you can also use the info utility to view documentation for commands, utility services, files, and applications installed on a Linux system. info and man serve a similar purpose, but they function differently. The man utility is more of a quick reference. It provides information, but no examples of how to use it. The info utility is more of a primer that provides much the same information as man, but adds a deeper explanation of each subject, often along with examples.

The data in info is organized into nodes rather than pages. Similar to man, to get information for a particular command, simply type the word info followed by the command.

### Info Use 05:57-06:16

Here, as with man, we're going to look for information about pwd. If you type info pwd, the info node referring to the command is displayed. You will find the information in info a bit more verbose and explanatory. Notice that the layout is similar to man, but there's probably more details.

### Navigate Within Info 06:16-06:49

As in the man utility, you can use several keys to navigate within info. The up and down arrows scrolls up or down one line. The mouse wheel does the same thing. The PgUp and PgDn keys scroll a page at a time. The del and backspace keys are equivalent to the PgUp key, and the spacebar is equivalent to the PgDn key. Home and End move to the beginning or end of the node. To move to the next or previous node, you press the n or p keys. As with man, pressing q exits the utility.

### Summary 06:49-07:04

And that's everything for this lesson. In this video, we talked about how to use the man and info utilities to get help with Linux commands, utilities, applications, and files.

## 2.2.2 Access Help Resources

### Access Help Resources 00:00-00:16

In this demonstration, we're going to show you how to access help resources when working from the command line in Linux. We'll first look at documentation resources available on a Linux system and then at how to get help with commands.

### Shared Documents 00:16-01:00

First, let's talk about documentation resources available on the system.

On most Linux systems, there will be a /usr/share/doc directory. When you list the contents of this directory, you see that a directory exists for many of the different components of the Linux system.

Each of these subdirectories contains documentation resources for that component. For example, when I change to the zip directory and run ls, we see a couple of files providing documentation resources for the zip command.

Often the documentation found in these directories can be viewed using the cat command. For example, I can run cat WHATSNEW | more, and then I can read the documentation about this command.

Let's go ahead and switch back to my home directory.

### Use man Pages 01:00-02:05

As a Linux administrator, there are several commands you'll become very familiar with since you'll use them often. However, there are a lot of other commands that you'll use so infrequently that you won't be able to remember the syntax or options available for them. For these, you need to know how to find their usage and options.

One of the most used methods of learning how to use a command is to use the man utility. When run, the man command displays a manual page, or documentation, for a specified command. For example, in my home directory, I have a directory named Videos. Since I don't store videos on this system, I want to get rid of that directory. So, to remove this directory, I'll type rm Videos and press Enter. However, when I do, I'm told it can't be removed because it's a directory.

I know that rm is the correct command, but since I've forgotten how to use it to remove a directory, I can use its man pages to find what I'm missing. To do this, I'll run man rm. Notice that this man page is divided up into several sections. Most man pages will use a similar structure and organization.

### Name 02:05-02:22

Toward the top, we have the Name section. This shows the name of the command but also shows a very high-level overview of what that command does. Here you see, it's telling us that the rm command can be used to remove files and directories. From that alone, I know I'm on the right track regarding wanting to use this command to remove a directory.

### Synopsis 02:22-02:38

The following section is the Synopsis section. This provides the basic syntax required to use the command. This example tells us we need to run the rm command, followed by whatever options are necessary, and then the file name or directory we want to remove.

### Description 02:38-02:53

Next, we have the Description section. This gives us details about how that command works and what it does. For example, over here, I see that the rm command won't remove directories by default. That explains why it failed when I tried to remove a directory earlier.

### Options 02:53-03:11

As with many Linux commands, some options can be used to alter how the command works. These options are found in the next section.

When I scroll down a little further, you can see an option called -r. This option tells the rm command to remove directories and any contents they may contain recursively. So, this is the option I need to remove my directory.

### Other Information 03:11-03:27

Now, when I go to the end of this man page, I see a few other sections, such as the Author of the command and the Copyright information. Notice that the last section is the SEE ALSO section. Here you'll find suggestions of other commands that might help you accomplish the task at hand.

### Man Page Navigation 03:27-03:55

As you work with man pages, you need to know how to navigate within them. Since I'm currently at the end of this man page, I can jump back to the beginning by pressing the Home key. I can then move through the file one line at a time by pressing the up and down arrow keys.

Another option is to press the spacebar or the page-up and page-down keys. These options display a new page for you. As you move around, the bottom line tells you where you are on the man page. And to get back to the end of the documentation, I can press the End key.

### Search for Text 03:55-04:34

Another useful feature of the man utility is its ability to search for specific text within the man page. For example, I'm going to press Home to get back to the beginning of this man page.

Since I knew that I wanted to learn how to remove a directory, instead of reading the whole file until I found a solution, I could have pressed / and then typed a keyword, such as directories. Now, when I press Enter, each instance of the word "directories" is highlighted within the file. I can then jump between each search result by pressing the N key. After doing that a few times, we see the -r option that we found earlier telling us to delete a directory and the content of that directory recursively.

### Exiting man 04:34-04:40

Now that I'm done learning what I need to use to remove directories, I can exit the man page by pressing the q key.

### Use info Command 04:40-05:06

Since the man utility doesn't provide extensive information about how to use a command, you can often find more information about a command using the utility named info.

The syntax for using info is the same as man. You type info and then the command name, such as rm, and press Enter.

You're then shown extensive information about the rm command. You can navigate within the info using your arrow keys and page-down and page-up keys, just like we did within a man page.

### Search in info 05:06-05:31

As with the man pages, you can search within a particular node, but instead of using the forward slash key, you need to press the Control and s keys. Then you'll type the search term you're looking for. In this case, we want to recursively delete directories, so let's type recursive. When I do, I see the search results highlighted over here. This tells us about the -r option we used earlier with the rm key.

### Info Format 05:31-06:13

An important thing to understand with the info command is that it reads documentation stored in the info format developed by the Free Software Foundation. The info format supports reading information from pages that have been linked together. This means that when you first run info for a particular command, you'll be taken to that section, also known as an invocation, where that information is found. This can be seen by looking at the top of the info page.

However, this line tells us that the following invocation will cover using the command named shred. To see this, notice that when I scroll down several pages, I'm shown the shred information. Now, just as with the man pages, when you're ready to exit info, you press the q key and go back out.

### Use --help Option 06:13-06:43

Before we end this demonstration, there are a couple of other help resources that I want to make you aware of.

Instead of using man or info, you can get a quick overview of a particular command by typing the name of the command followed by --help. I'll also use the more command so we can stop at the first page.

As you can see, this is a condensed version of the man page. This is useful if you already have a pretty good idea of how to use a command, but you just need to remember which option you should use.

### Use the help Command 06:43-07:04

Finally, you can also use the help command at the command prompt. It likewise displays summary information about a command. When you just type help by itself, you're shown a list of all the different commands you can use help with.

For example, to view help for the cd, or change directory command, I can type help cd, and when I do, summary information about how to use the cd command is displayed.

### Summary 07:04-07:31

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we talked about how to access help resources from the Linux command prompt. We first looked at the documentation resources in the /usr/share/doc directory. Then we looked at how to get help using the man and info commands. We ended this demo by showing you how to use --help with a command and how to use the help command.

## 2.2.3 Help Facts

There are several resources available to you that provide help with Linux commands, utilities, and configuration files.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Man interface</li>
   <li>Info reader</li>
   <li>On-screen help and the help command</li>
   <li>The /usr/share/doc directory</li>
<li>Whatis database</li></ul>

### Man Interface

The man interface displays manual (man) pages, which are text-based help files for a specific command, service, or configuration file. A man page shows a command's syntax, options, and related files and commands.

<ul><li>You can open the man interface to view a man page using <b >man <i>command or file</i></b> .
<ul><li>Use the <b >-k</b> option to search all man pages for a specific search term.</li>
<li>Example: <b >man userdel</b> shows the man pages for the <b >userdel</b> command.</li>
<li>Example: <b >man -k user</b> lists all the commands with <i class="fs-italicize">user</i> in the command name or description.</li></ul></li>
<li>Man pages are typically stored in the <b>/usr/man</b> or <b>/usr/share/man</b> directory. Subdirectories store man pages for different types of commands or languages.
<ul><li>Some distributions use the MANPATH environment variable to identify the location where man pages are stored. Type <b >echo $MANPATH</b> to see the value of this variable.</li>
<li>Some distributions use the MANPATH_MAP directive in the /etc/man_db.conf or /etc/manpath.config file to specify the directories where man pages are stored.</li></ul></li>
<li>A man page usually consists of several elements that are used to organize the information.
<ul><li>The TITLE section is the first line of the man page. It lists the name of the command or file followed by the section number.</li>
<li>The NAME section displays the name of the command or file and a short summary that describes what it does.</li>
<li>The SYNOPSIS section reviews the syntax for using a command or a brief overview of what a configuration file is used for.</li>
<li>The DESCRIPTION section describes how the command or configuration file works. It also provides a list of options that can be used.</li>
<li>The AUTHOR section displays the name of the programmer who wrote the command or service referenced in the man page.</li>
<li>The REPORTING BUGS section provides contact information to report any bugs you discover.</li>
<li>The COPYRIGHT section identifies who owns the copyright to the command or service referenced in the man page.</li>
<li>The SEE ALSO section lists man pages or other resources that are related to the current man page.</li>
<li>The last line of a man page displays the version number and revision date of the command or service.</li></ul></li>
<li>Use the following keystrokes to navigate within man pages.
<ul><li>Use the <b >Up arrow</b> key to move up one line.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Down arrow</b> key to move down one line.</li>
<li>Use the <b >PgUp</b> key to move up one display page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >PgDn</b> key or the space bar to move down one display page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Home</b> key to go to the beginning of the man page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >End</b> key to go to the end of the man page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >/</b> key to search for text within the man page and the n key to move to the next occurrence of the searched-for text.</li>
<li>Use the <b >q</b> key to exit the man page.</li></ul></li></ul>

### Info Reader

The Info reader displays Info pages (which are called Info nodes). Info nodes are similar to man pages but are more verbose and emphasize how to use Linux commands and utilities. Info nodes use hypertext links to navigate between nodes.

<ul><li>You can open the Info reader to view an Info node command using <b >info <i class="fs-italicize">command or file</i></b> .
<ul><li>Example: <b >info mkdir</b> opens the Info page for the <b >mkdir</b> command.</li></ul></li>
<li>The top line of the display shows the next and previous Info nodes.</li>
<li>Use the following keystrokes to navigate within Info nodes.
<ul><li>Use the <b >Up</b> <b >arrow</b> key to move up one line.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Down</b> <b >arrow</b> key to move down one line.</li>
<li>Use the <b >PgUp</b> key or the Del key to move up one display page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >PgDn</b> key or the space bar to move down one display page.</li>
<li>Use the <b >h</b> key to show the Info help node.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Tab</b> key to move to the next hyperlink within the Info
nodes.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Home</b> key to move to the beginning of a node.</li>
<li>Use the <b >Enter</b> key to follow the selected hyperlink.</li>
<li>Use the <b >n</b> key to move to the next Info node.</li>
<li>Use the <b >p</b> key to move to the previous Info node.</li>
<li>Use the <b >q</b> key to exit the Info reader.</li></ul></li></ul>

### On-Screen Help and the help Command

Many commands include on-screen help as one of the options for the command.

<ul><li>Typically, to view the help available for a command, type <i class="fs-italicize">:</i> <ul><li><b >[command] --help</b> <ul><li>Example: <b >jobs --help</b> displays help on the <b >jobs</b> command.</li></ul></li>
<li><b >[</b> <b class="c3 fw-bold">
<span style="font-style: normal">
command]</span></b> <b >-h</b> <ul><li>Example: <b >echo -h</b> displays help on the <b >echo</b> command.</li></ul></li></ul></li>
<li>If the command is typed incorrectly, many commands display the help information automatically.</li>
<li>In most cases, help is an abbreviated list that shows the command syntax and available options with brief descriptions.</li>
<li>Although some commands support both switches, the <b >--help</b> switch is more common.</li>
<li>If necessary, pipe the command through <b >more</b> using the command <b >[command] --help | more</b> to scroll through the on-screen help.</li></ul>

### help

<ul>
  <li>
    To view information about a built-in command that matches a pattern of characters, type:
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b >help [pattern]</b>
        <ul>
          <li>
            Example: <b >help exec</b> displays help on the
            exec command.
          </li>
          <li>
            Example: <b >help ex</b> displays help on three
            commands: <b >exec</b> ,
            <b >exit</b> <b ></b> ,
            <b ><strong ></strong></b>
            <strong ></strong> and
            <b >export</b> .
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    The help command has three options:
    <ul>
<li>
<b >help -d</b> outputs a short description for each topic.
</li>
      <li>
        <b >help -m</b> displays command usage in a pseudo-man page format.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b >help -s</b> outputs only a short usage synopsis for each matching topic.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

### The /usr/share/doc Directory

The /usr/share/doc directory contains documentation resources for many of the different components of the Linux system.

<ul><li>Within the /usr/share/doc directory are subdirectories for many components.</li>
<li>Typical files in each subdirectory include:
<ul><li>NEWS</li>
<li>README</li>
<li>AUTHOR</li>
<li>OVERVIEW</li>
<li>COPYING</li></ul></li>
<li>Use the <b >cat</b> command to display the contents of the files in each subdirectory.</li></ul>

### Whatis Database

#### whatis

<ul><li>The <b >whatis [keyword]</b> command displays one-line man page descriptions for commands that match the keyword exactly. <ul><li>The <b >whatis</b> results are intended to give you a general idea of what a command or component will do.</li>
<li>Example: <b >whatis grep</b></li>
<li>If the whatis database has not been created, run the <b >/usr/sbin/makewhatis</b> command.</li>
<li>Use <b >makewhatis -u</b> to update the database after changes have been made to the man pages.</li></ul></li>
<li>The <b >apropos [keyword]</b> command displays one-line man page descriptions for any command or man page description that contains the keyword. <ul><li>The <b >apropos</b> results are intended to help you learn what command or program to use when performing a certain task.</li>
<li>Example: <b >apropos declare</b></li></ul></li>
<li>Both the <b >whatis</b> and <b >apropos</b> commands use the whatis database. <ul><li>If the whatis database has not been created, run the <b >/usr/sbin/makewhatis</b> command.</li>
<li>Use <b >makewhatis -u</b> to update the database after changes
have been made to the man pages.</li></ul></li></ul>
