---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.3 Text Editors
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Why is it important to know how to run a text editor on a Linux system?</li>
    <li>What are the four different modes available in the vi editor, and how can you tell the current mode?</li>
    <li>Which vi mode would you use to overwrite existing text?</li>
    <li>How can you list all the keystroke shortcuts in the nano text editor?</li>
    <li>Which text editor, vi or nano, should you use?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Create a new file</li>
    <li>Modify an existing file</li>
<li>Use the nano editor</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Term</th>
<th scope="col" >
Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>vi or vim</td>
<td>A utility that creates and modifies text files.
Due to the <i class="fs-italicize">vim</i> interface being virtually identical to <i class="fs-italicize">vi</i> ,
the names <i class="fs-italicize">vi</i> and <i class="fs-italicize">vim</i> have become interchangeable,
and the shorter name <i class="fs-italicize">vi</i> is used when describing both
editors.</td></tr>
<tr><td>vi operating modes</td>
<td>Four different modes that the vi text editor operates under are Command Mode, Command Line Mode, Insert Mode, and Replace Mode.</td></tr>
<tr><td>vi commands</td>
<td>Keystroke sequences that control the vi editor, including cursor movement, cutting, copying and pasting text, finding and replacing text, and writing the buffer to a file.</td></tr>
<tr><td>nano</td>
<td>A utility that creates and modifies text files.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >Exam</th>
<th scope="col" >Objective</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
<td>1.1 Use command-line utilities
<br>
<ul><li>View, search, and edit the content of text files</li></ul>
<p>2.2 Manage the file system</p>
<ul><li>Create, copy, move, and delete files in the file system</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
<td>1.2 Given a scenario, manage files and directories
<ul><li>File editing<br><ul><li>nano</li>
<li>vi(m)</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.3.1 Text Editors

### Text Editors 00:00-00:34

Text editors are an important component of Linux. Most configuration files are plaintext and do not allow special or control characters. As an example, MS Windows has a text editor called Notepad. The primary text editor that is packaged with most, if not all, Linux distributions is called vi. While the function is the same, vi is much different than notepad and takes some getting used to. It's very powerful. However, it also has a steep learning curve. That said, with a little practice, most users get the hang of it quickly.

### The vi Editor 00:34-00:56

In this lesson, we're going to learn about how the vi editor edits text files. Vi is a non-graphical editor used in a terminal or from a non-GUI command prompt. It has been a bundled Linux package for a very long time and was first introduced in 1976. There are other graphical and non-graphical editors, but vi is probably the most widely used, especially by system administrators.

### Open/Create a File with vi 00:56-01:19

The vi editor is started by typing vi followed by a new or existing filename. Here we are creating a file called sample.txt. To open an existing file, simply replace sample.txt with the path and filename of the existing file. When creating a new file, vi opens a blank screen and the file contents are not actually stored until you save the file to disk.

### vi Modes 01:19-01:55

There are several way to utilize vi through what are called modes. We will discuss 4 different modes. First, the insert mode. The insert mode allows you to enter text into the vi editor. You can enter text, change contents, add lines, etc. Second, is replace mode. Here, you can replace existing text within the vi editor. Command mode allows you to utilize vi specific commands to delete lines, cut & paste, etc. Lastly, Command-line mode provides keyword search, file save, quit and other functions. We will now review these modes in more detail.

### Command Mode 01:55-02:24

By default, vi opens or creates a file in normal or Command Mode. The confusing part for most is that while in Command Mode you can't edit the file. You can navigate using arrow keys, but you can't modify text. Command mode allows you to enter commands or key sequences that allow you to delete one or more lines, move the cursor to the end or beginning of a line, cut and paste, etc. To make changes or enter text into vi you need to first go into Insert mode.

### Insert Mode 02:24-03:04

To use Insert mode, you need to enter a command. You can do this by pressing the Insert key, or by pressing any one of the following keys: i, o, s, or a. Any of these keys will switch you from Command Mode into Insert Mode. Notice, when in Insert mode, the bottom left of the screen displays -- INSERT --. Seeing INSERT at the bottom of the screen is the dead giveaway you are no longer in Command mode. Here you have full editing capabilities to type text and use the backspace, tab, and enter keys, to name a few. Pressing Insert again will place vi into REPLACE mode. Actually, pressing the Insert key toggles between Insert and Replace modes.

### Replace Mode 03:04-03:46

Replace mode is the same as overtype mode. As you type, you will replace any text that already exists at the cursor. This is used when you want to replace text that might be spelled wrong or you simply are looking to remove some of the text already written. You know you are in Replace mode by the -- REPLACE -- in the lower left corner of the screen. This is not a very commonly used mode, and it might be easier to simply erase the text you don't want and insert the text you do. Again, you can use the Insert key to toggle between Insert and Replace modes.

If only a single character requires a change from the Command mode, place the cursor on the character to be changed, press the r key, then the correct character, and that change will become permanent.

### Enter Text 03:46-04:10

With the understanding of how to start vi, open a file and enter into Insert or Replace mode, you can begin editing your file. You type your text, move around with the arrow keys, use the backspace or delete keys, use the tab key—you have full control of the text you enter. What you can't do – yet – is cut, paste, save or exit vi. The next few slides will show you how to perform those functions.

### Command Line Mode 04:10-05:33

Once you have completed editing your file, you will want to save your changes. First, you must exit Insert or Replace mode and return back to Command mode. You do this by pressing the Escape key. You will see the word Insert or Replace disappear from the bottom left corner. Once in Command mode, press the colon key to enter into Command-Line mode. A colon will now appear in the bottom left corner. There are no menus here to provide direction, so it is important to practice with vi to get to know the commands and remember their use. From here, you can enter several commands. A few follow: To save a file, simply type :w or :w filename to specify the saved file name. To exit out of vi, enter a :q. If you have made any changes to the file, you will receive a message letting you know the file has changed so you cannot exit with saving it first. If you wish to quit without save the file first, you can override the warning by entering :q! You can overwrite an existing file by entering :w!. Another great feature is the ability to combine commands such as write and exit. You can do this by typing the command to write followed by the command to exit... :wq. Here is a situation where the command order matters. You can enter :qw since you cannot exit before saving the file.

### Working in Command Mode 05:33-05:51

Now that you have the basics, we're back to Command mode. It is called Command mode because there are several dozen commands you can enter here to manipulate your file. In this example, the file is a few lines long. Imagine, however, a file with hundreds of lines and you need to find certain text.

### Find and Replace Commands 05:51-06:56

You can use the slash key followed by the text you are looking for and vi will find it. Remember, Linux is a case-sensitive operating system, you must enter the text paying attention to capitalization. To perform a case-insensitive search, you can add a \c to the search. To make this a more permanent feature, you can enter into command-line mode, and type :set ignorecase. To find the next instance of the text_to_find, simply enter a slash then press Enter. To find the previous instance, you can press the ? followed by Enter. To perform a search-and-replace, the syntax is a bit different.

Again, using command line mode, you can use the search function. The syntax for this command is :s followed by a slash then the text to find followed by a slash then the text to replace with. This will find the next occurrence of the text you are searching for and perform a single replace. If you want to find every instance of the find text and replace it, you can add a /g.

### Cut, Paste, and Undo Commands 06:56-07:49

Command mode also provides commands for deleting text. You can use the dw command to delete the word that comes immediately after the cursor, including the space following the word. Similarly, there's the de command, which will does the same thing, but does not include the following space. A third command is d$. It deletes the text from the current cursor location to the end of the line. Lastly, the dd command deletes the entire line.

All of these commands act similarly to the cut command. While the text is removed from the screen, it is stored in a buffer and can be pasted back. After entering the appropriate delete command, you can use the p command-line command to paste the information in the cut buffer back into the editor at the current cursor location.

There will come a time when you have made a mistake. Perhaps you deleted the wrong line or word. The u command-line command will undo your last command.

### Cursor Movement and File Status 07:49-08:07

The Ctrl-g command displays a status line at the bottom of the interface which will tell you the name, status, and the total number of lines in the file, as well as the current cursor location. To move the cursor to the end of a line, use $, and to move cursor to the beginning of a line, use 0.

### Copy/Paste Commands 08:07-08:46

Sometimes, it makes sense to copy text that has already been entered and place it elsewhere. This is often called copy/paste, and is possible in vi with the yank command. You can simply yank or copy a single line of text using the yy command-line command. The entire line at the cursor is copied into a memory buffer. Move the cursor where you wish to insert the copy, then press p to paste the line. You can do this with multiple lines too. Move the cursor to the first line you wish to copy then enter the command nyy where n is the number of lines you wish to copy. Again, move your cursor to the new location and press p to paste the lines you just yanked.

### Summary 08:46-09:13

Vi is a very powerful editor and has many functions that require memorization to learn. With practice, you can become comfortable with the editor found in most Linux distributions. In the lesson, you learned how to open and create files in vi, the purpose of the different operating modes, and how to work within the command-line. You learned how to find and replace, cut, copy and paste.

## 2.3.2 Use vim

### Use vi 00:00-00:33

In this demonstration, we're going to show you how to use the Linux text editor named vim. The original text editor for Linux was named vi. Since its first release, an enhanced version has been written, which is now vim. Although vim is included in many distributions, such as this one, you may need to install it in others like Ubuntu.

For this demonstration, we're going to start vim from a terminal, but be aware that vim also includes a GUI version named gvim.

### Starting vim 00:33-01:08

After opening a terminal, you could just run vim by itself, which would open a blank document with no filename associated with it. In that case, the name of the file would be provided when you exit vim. However, if you know the name of the file you want to create, you can specify it when you open vim. To edit an existing file, you'd simply specify the name and path, if needed, of the existing file.

For our purposes today, let's go ahead and start to create a new file by running vim newfile. Notice that the editor is opened, and the name of the file is shown at the bottom of the window.

### Command Mode 01:08-01:25

One of the major differences between vim and other text editors you may be familiar with, such as Notepad, is that you can't begin adding text when it's first opened because, by default, vim opens in what's known as the command mode. You can't edit the text while you're in command mode.

### Insert Mode 01:25-02:03

To add text, you first need to switch to insert mode. This can be done by pressing the Insert key or the letters I or S. I'll press the Insert key. Notice that when I do, a prompt is shown down here, telling me that I'm now in insert mode. Now that I'm in this mode, I can add some text, such as, "This is my new file. It is nice."

When you're in insert mode, any text you type will always be added after the current location of the cursor. For example, when I move my cursor back to the letter N and then type "very," the word "nice" is moved to make room for the new word.

### Replace Mode 02:03-02:46

The vim editor also has another editing mode known as the replace mode. I can get into this mode by pressing the Insert key on the keyboard. Now the prompt at the bottom of the file has changed to let me easily know which mode I'm in. Pressing the Insert key on the keyboard will toggle between insert mode and replace mode.

In replace mode, the characters you type will now replace whatever text is currently under the cursor. To see that, I'll move back to the word "very" and now type really nice, and as I do, you see that the existing text is overwritten.

To get back to insert mode from replace mode, I simply press the Insert key again, and then I can type any additional text needed.

### Command Line Mode 02:46-03:24

Now, let's suppose that this is all I need in this file, and now I want to save my changes. I need to get back to the command line mode to do that. Notice I said, "command line mode," not "command mode." Command line mode is another vim mode you need to be familiar with.

To get to the command line mode, you first need to press the Escape key. This takes you back to the command mode. From here, we can enter the command line mode by pressing the colon (:) key. When you do, you see a colon displayed at the bottom, and a line is provided, allowing us to enter commands—hence the name command line mode.

### Save a File 03:24-04:35

When saving a file to the disk, you have a few options. One option would be to simply type w, for write, and press Enter, and when I do, the file's saved. Notice that it tells us that my new file has been created. It has one line of text and thirty-nine characters.

When we go back into command line mode by entering a colon again, another option would be to enter w and then a different filename, such as newfile2. This is the equivalent of doing a "save as" in a traditional text editor.

Another option is to save the file and exit the editor in one operation. There are two ways to do this. One is to enter wq, which stands for write quit, or you can just type exit. They both do the same thing. They save the file, and they exit the editor.

If you want to quit without performing a write operation, you enter just q, and you exit out of the vim editor without saving any changes. If there have been changes to the file since the last save, you must either write the changes or discard them by typing colon q exclamation point.

Let's go ahead and open the file we just created.

### Command Mode Edit Commands 04:35-04:56

Notice that this time we're shown the contents of the file since the file was already created. Since the file was in my current directory, I didn't have to specify a path.

Also, remember that by default, we're in the command mode. Within command mode, there are several commands that we can use to manipulate the text within this file. Let's look at a few of those.

### The dw and p Commands 04:56-05:32

A common text editing task is to cut and paste the text. To do this from within vim, you can use the dw or the de commands. The dw command cuts the word that comes immediately after the cursor, as well as the space that follows that word, and puts it in a memory buffer.

For example, to cut the word "really," I'll move my cursor to the first letter of that word and press dw. Notice that the word and the space after were cut. To paste the word to a new location, I'll move my cursor to the space after "It" and press p, and the word's pasted.

### The de Command 05:32-05:56

A similar command that can be used to cut text is the de command. It does the same thing as dw, except it doesn't include the space after the word.

To see this, I'll move my cursor to the blank space before the word "nice" and press de.

Next, I'll move my cursor to the last letter of the word "my" and press p, and the word is moved.

### The u Command 05:56-06:19

Since this last sentence in this file isn't complete, let's show you another useful feature, which is the ability to undo a change you just made. In vim, this is done by typing the letter u.

So, to undo the last paste, I'll press u, and the word I just pasted is removed. And now, when I press u again, the word "nice" is placed back, and my sentence is complete.

### The dd Command 06:19-06:43

Another helpful feature you can use while in command mode is the ability to delete an entire line of text.

To do this, simply place your cursor anywhere on the line you want to delete and then press dd, and the line of text is deleted. Note, however, that the deleted line is also copied to the buffer, so if needed, you can move your cursor to a new location and paste it back by pressing p.

### The d$ Command 06:43-07:12

There's a variation on the dd command, which is d$. It works in the same way as dd, except that it cuts from the current cursor position, including the character the cursor is on, to the end of the line.

For example, I'll move my cursor to the end of the first sentence and then press d$ to delete the second sentence found on this same line. And as before, I can paste it using the p key, or I can press u to undo the command.

### Search for Text 07:12-08:42

Another useful feature of the vim editor is the ability to search for text within the file.

However, before doing that, let's duplicate this line a few more times. To do that, I'll first delete the line using dd, then paste it back in several times. Next, I'll return to the top and delete this blank line.

Okay, with that done, to perform a search, you enter the forward slash (/), followed by the text that you want to search for. In this example, I'll look for the word really, press Enter, and the first instance of that word is selected.

To check and see if there are any other instances of the word "nice," I can press n, and it shows me the next instance of the word, and I can keep doing that to find all the instances of the word.

Notice that when I get to the end and then press n one more time, I'm told that the search hit the BOTTOM, or in other words, the end of the file, and that it's going to continue the search from the top of the file.

It's important to note that when you use the forward slash (/), it searches from the current location of the cursor position forward in the file. However, if you want to search backward, you can do so using the question mark.

To see that, I'll press the forward slash (/) again to end this current search and then replace the forward slash with a question mark, followed by the word I want to search for. This time let's search for the word "new" and press Enter. Now, when I press n, notice that the search is going up the file.

### The yy Command 08:42-08:57

The vim editor also lets you copy an entire line. This is done by typing yy. When I do that, you don't see anything change because we just copied the line. But now, when I press p, the line's pasted to the location of my cursor.

### Quit without Saving 08:57-09:56

Before we end this demo, I want to show you one last command.

There may be instances when you've opened a configuration file in vim, made some changes, and realized that you've made a lot of mistakes and don't want to try to go back and fix all the mistakes. Instead, you just want to get out of the editor without saving your changes.

As we mentioned earlier, the default way to exit out of vim is to go into command line mode and then press q, but when I do that, I'm told that I haven't written any of my changes, and so it's not letting me get out of vim. This is a safety measure to make sure you don't accidentally close a file in which you've made changes without saving your changes.

Notice, however, that this same warning message also tells me that if I really want to quit, I can add the exclamation point to override the default option. To see that, let's go back into command line mode, and this time I'll enter q with an exclamation point (!), press Enter, and vim is closed without saving the changes.

### Summary 09:56-10:22

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we talked about how to use the vim editor to create and edit text files. We first showed you how to use the insert and replace modes and how to save a file. Next, we showed you how to use command line mode, and we ended this demo by reviewing several commands you can use in command mode and how to exit vim without saving your changes.

## 2.3.3 Use nano

### Use nano 00:00-00:08

In this demonstration, we're going to show you how to use the nano text editor.

### The nano Interface 00:08-00:50

Let's start by looking at the nano interface. Nano can be started from the terminal window, by typing nano at the shell prompt.

At the top of the nano interface is the name of the program and the version number. Notice that New Buffer is shown. Just like vi and other GUI editors, a file is created or opened into a buffer, and then when ready, the changes are saved to disk. Once this new file is saved, New Buffer will be replaced with the file name you choose.

At the bottom, we see two other parts of the interface. The third line from the bottom is a system message that displays relevant information. The two bottom lines show the shortcut keys that can be used to create and edit files. These shortcut keys will dynamically change depending on what actions you take.

### Basic Help 00:50-01:36

Notice that the system message tells us that, "For basic help, type Ctrl+G." When we do that, we see the main nano help displayed. This information can be used to help you decipher how the shortcuts work.

Here, we read that the caret symbol (^) shown in the shortcuts means, that we need to press the Ctrl key.

For example, further on down, we see that caret G (^G) means, "While holding down the Ctrl key, press the (G) key." The help text tells us that this will display this help text, which is exactly what we've done.

Notice the next two shortcuts. Ctrl+X closes the current buffer or exits from nano. Ctrl+O writes the current buffer to disk. Also, notice that the keys within parentheses are alternate keystrokes that accomplish the same task.

### Meta and Alt Keys 01:36-02:09

As we look at the list of shortcuts currently shown, we see shortcuts that begin with M-. As we review the help text, we see that these are shortcuts that use the Meta-key. Older keyboards had a Meta key. On newer keyboards, you use the Alt, Command, or Escape keys instead. For example, since this system doesn't have a meta key, I'll use, Alt+/ to go to the end of the help information.

Looking at the shortcuts now shown, you can see that Alt+L configures nano to automatically hard wrap lines that are too long. Let's see how that works.

### Automatic Text Wrapping 02:09-02:54

We'll close the help text by pressing Ctrl+X. Before doing that, notice that Ctrl+X indicates that it will close the file, meaning it will close the help text buffer. But now when I press Ctrl+x again, notice that the shortcuts change, and Ctrl+X will now exit nano instead of closing the help text buffer.

We don't see Alt+L because it's not important enough to be listed, but when we use it, the system message shows us that overlong lines will be wrapped. Let's type a few lines of text to see how that works.

When we turn off wrapping and type in the same text, a less-than sign (<) shows us there is more text that is off the screen to the left or right, depending on where you are in the line.

### Cursor Movement 02:54-03:26

While we're here, let's explore how to move the cursor around in the text. What happens when we use the arrow keys? The curser moves up, down, left, and right, as expected.

What do the End and Home keys do? Again, as expected, END moves the cursor to the end of the line, and Home, to the beginning of the line.

Here's a fun one. Ctrl+ right arrow moves the cursor forward one word, and Ctrl+ left arrow moves the cursor back one word. You can look in the help text to find other key sequences that move the cursor to a particular line or column.

### Cut, Copy and Paste 03:26-04:06

How about cutting, copying, and pasting text?

To copy text, you first have to mark it. This is done by pressing Alt+A and then moving the cursor to highlight some text. Now, to copy the marked text, I'll press Alt+6.

When we look at our shortcuts, we see that to Paste Text, we use Ctrl+U. Let's put our cursor on a new line and use Ctrl+U, and the copied text is pasted.

To cut and paste, I'll use Alt+A, and mark the desired text, and then press Ctrl+K to cut that text, and then after moving my cursor to a new location, I'll press Ctrl+U to paste the text.

### Save to a File 04:06-04:50

We'll leave you to explore the help text for other shortcuts and experiment with them as you learn how nano operates. But before ending this demo, we'll want to see how to save our buffer to a file and how to edit other files.

To write the contents of the buffer to a file on the disk, you can press Ctrl+O. Since this is a new file, we are prompted for a file name. Let's type myfile, and press Enter. The system message tells us the number of lines that were written, and the file name is now listed at the top.

I can now make additional changes. Now when I press Ctrl+X, we're prompted to save the buffer. We'll answer Yes and then press Enter to use the same file name and leave nano.

### Save to a New File 04:50-05:13

At our shell prompt, running ls, shows me that the file has been created. And I can run cat myfile to see its contents.

To edit a file, type nano and the file name. Within nano, we can save to a new file using Ctrl+O and then typing a new file name and pressing Enter. We'll need to confirm this is a different name. And now I can press Ctrl+x to exit nano.

### Summary 05:13-05:35

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration we saw how the nano interface displays system messages and shortcut hints, and we saw how the help text lists all the shortcuts.

We determined how to move the cursor, and how to cut, copy, and paste text. Finally, we saved our changes to a file.

## 2.3.4 Text Editor Facts

Traditionally, many Linux system configurations are made by editing text files. Therefore, knowing how to use a text editor is an important Linux skill. This is especially important when configuring Linux servers that are not configured with a GUI.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>The vi editor</li>
   <li>The nano editor</li>
<li>Choosing a text editor</li></ul>

### The vi Editor

The vi or vim editor is a utility that creates and modifies text files. It is the de facto command line text editor included with most Linux distributions.

> Most Linux distributions actually include the vim editor instead of vi. The name vim is an acronym for "Vi Improved," which indicates that vim extends the vi functionality. Due to the vim interface being virtually identical to vi, the names vi and vim have become interchangeable, and the shorter name vi is used when describing both editors.

The vi editor uses the following operational modes:

<ul><li>Command mode is the initial mode vi uses when started. It provides commands that can cut and replace text. It is also the mode from which you access the other vi modes.</li>
<li>Command line mode is used to load files and save files after editing them in the file system.</li>
<li>Edit mode is the mode that vi uses to write and edit text in the file. It has two operation modes:
<ul><li>Insert mode adds text between the preceding and subsequent text.</li>
<li>Replace mode overwrites subsequent text.</li></ul></li></ul>

The table below lists some of the most common vi commands:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Command</th>
<th scope="col" >Function</th>
<th scope="col" >Mode</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >vi</b></td>
<td>Starts vi. Type the command at the shell prompt.</td>
<td>N/A</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >vi</b> <b >[file_name]</b></td>
<td>Starts vi and immediately begins working on the named file (either a new file or an existing file). Type the <b >vi</b> command at the shell prompt.</td>
<td>N/A</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >Insert</b> key
<br> <b >i<br>s</b></td>
<td>Enters insert mode from command mode.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >Esc</b> key</td>
<td>Enters command mode from edit mode.</td>
<td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >Delete</b> key</td>
<td>Deletes text.</td>
<td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >Insert</b> key</td>
<td>Toggles between the insert and replace modes while in edit mode.</td>
<td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
<tr><td><b ><i class="fs-italicize">#</i> [line_number]</b></td>
<td>Goes to a specific line in the document while in command mode. For example, <b >#94</b> moves the cursor to line 94.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >dw</b></td>
<td>Cuts a whole word and trailing space.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >de</b></td>
<td>Cuts a whole word but omits the trailing space.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >d$</b> or <b >D</b></td>
<td>Cuts all text following the cursor to the end of the line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >dd</b></td>
<td>Cuts a line from the text.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >p</b></td>
<td>Places text in memory into the document.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >u</b></td>
<td>Undoes the last action.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >O</b></td>
<td>Opens a new line above the current line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >o</b></td>
<td>Opens a new line below the current line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >Ctrl+g</b></td>
<td>Displays the file name, the total number of lines in the file, and the cursor position.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >/[term]</b></td>
<td>Searches forward for all instances of a term. Press n to go to the next term and N to go to the previous term.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >?[term]</b></td>
<td>Searches backward for all instances of a term. Press n to go to the previous term and N to go to the next term.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >yy</b></td>
<td>Copies a line of text into memory.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >a</b></td>
<td>Appends text after the cursor.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >A</b></td>
<td>Appends text after the current line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >C</b></td>
<td>Changes text from the current cursor position to
the end of the line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >cc</b></td>
<td>Changes text of the entire line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >ZZ</b></td>
<td>Saves the current file and exits vi.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >h</b></td>
<td>Moves the cursor one space to the left.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >j</b></td>
<td>Moves the cursor down a line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >k</b></td>
<td>Moves the cursor up a line.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >l</b></td>
<td>Moves the cursor one space to the right.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >z</b></td>
<td>Exits without saving.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >:</b></td>
<td>Enters command line mode from command mode.</td>
<td>Command</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >w</b></td>
<td>Saves the current document.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >w</b> <b >[file_name]</b></td>
<td>Names and saves the file.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >w![file_name]</b></td>
<td>Overwrites the file.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >q</b></td>
<td>Exits vi. This produces an error if the text was
modified.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >q!</b></td>
<td>Exits vi without saving.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >wq</b> or <b >exit</b></td>
<td>Saves the document and exits vi.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >e!</b></td>
<td>Reloads the file from the last saved version. This discards all edits and reloads the last saved version of the file into vi.</td>
<td>Command line</td></tr></tbody></table>

### The nano Editor

The nano editor is included in most Linux distributions.

<ul><li>To start the editor, type <b >nano</b> at the shell prompt.</li>
<li>The nano editor is simpler to use than the vi editor.
<ul><li>Common keystroke shortcuts are listed at the bottom of the nano interface.
<ul><li>A caret (^) in the shortcut means press and hold the Ctrl key.</li>
<li>'M-' listed in the shortcut means press and hold the Meta key.
On modern keyboards, the Alt or Esc key is substituted for the
Meta key.</li></ul></li>
<li>Ctrl+G (listed as ^G) displays the full help text, which includes a full list of shortcuts.</li>
<li>Prompts are displayed when user input is needed.</li>
<li>The Home, End, PgUp, PgDn, and arrow keys move the cursor in the same way as other common editors.</li></ul></li></ul>

The table below lists some common nano shortcuts:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Shortcut</th>
<th scope="col" > Function</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>^G <br>(Ctrl+G)</td>
<td>Displays the help text, which includes a list of
all keyboard shortcuts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^X
<br>
(Ctrl+X)</td>
<td>Closes the current buffer or exits from nano.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^O
<br>
(Ctrl+O)</td>
<td>Writes the current buffer (or the marked region) to disk.</td></tr>
<tr><td>M-Space
<br>
(Alt+Space or
<br>
Esc+Space)</td>
<td>Goes back one word.
<br></td></tr>
<tr><td>^Space
<br>
(Ctrl+Space)</td>
<td>Goes forward one word.</td></tr>
<tr><td>M-A
<br>
(Alt+A or Esc+A)</td>
<td>Marks text starting from the cursor position.</td></tr>
<tr><td>M-6
<br>
(Alt+6 or Esc+6)</td>
<td>Copies current line (or marked region) and stores it in cutbuffer.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^K
<br>
(Ctrl+K)</td>
<td>Cuts current line (or marked region) and stores it in cutbuffer.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^U
<br>
(Ctrl+U)</td>
<td>Uncuts (paste) from the cutbuffer into the current line.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^W
<br>
(Ctrl+W)</td>
<td>Searches forward for a string or a regular expression.</td></tr>
<tr><td>^\
<br>
(Ctrl+\)</td>
<td>Replaces a string or a regular expression.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### Choosing a Text Editor

There are a host of text editors available for the Linux platform. The vi and nano editors have proven to be the most popular, largely due to their availability. A highlight of the differences between vi and nano may help when choosing a text editor.

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Attribute</th>
<th scope="col" >The vi Editor</th>
<th scope="col" > The nano Editor</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Availability</td>
<td>Included in virtually every Linux distribution.</td>
<td>Included in most Linux distributions.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Licensing</td>
<td>BSD License or CDDL (free and open source software).</td>
<td>GNU General Public License (GPL) (free software license).</td></tr>
<tr><td>Interface Complexity</td>
<td>Non-intuitive, especially due to the different operational modes.</td>
<td>Intuitive, mostly due to the onscreen display of keystroke shortcuts.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Feature set</td>
<td>Full and complex feature set.</td>
<td>Basic feature set.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Learning curve</td>
<td>May take a prolonged time to learn due to its complex feature set.</td>
<td>Usually learned quickly, especially for users having experience with other editors.</td></tr></tbody></table>

> If you are just starting out in Linux and only need a simple editor, choose nano. If you are already proficient using the vi editor or you need its more powerful features, choose vi.
