---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.4 Aliases
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the purpose of an alias?</li>
<li>When would it be important to make an alias persistent?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Use aliases</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >Term</th>
<th scope="col" >
Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Alias</td>
<td>A shortcut stored in memory that runs a command on your Linux system.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Persistent alias</td>
<td>An alias that persists after logging out or rebooting.</td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.4.1 Aliases

### Aliases 00:00-01:45

In this video, we'll go over aliases. Now, aliases are used in Linux for many reasons, but mainly to provide a shortcut for a given command. Aliases can also be used to add parameters to commands that alter their behavior, like displaying a long file listing or adding colors to vi, the Linux text editor. The focus of this lesson is to show you how you can use aliases to provide simple substitutes that reduce complex commands with just a couple of letters.

The system administrator is the one who defines aliases for the system. These entries are available to all users that are logged in. Default aliases differ from distribution to distribution, but here are a few that are pretty common: First, is the dir alias. You might remember from Windows that typing dir displays a list of files contained within the current directory. Since a lot of people are used to Microsoft commands, the dir alias is commonly used for the Linux command ls-l. When using the cp, rm, or mv commands as the root user, you often create aliases for users to confirm everything before the system actually executes anything. We call this interactive mode.

Different aliases are often created to make a small change to a command's behavior. Using the ls command, you may want a long listing, or ls -l. You might want a listing that includes hidden files, or ls -a. Maybe you want both. You can create aliases for each one: ll for a long listing, and la for a listing with hidden files. For both at the same time, you combine them together: lla = ls -al. There are several common aliases, but your system administrator may decide to customize the list of available ones as they see fit.

Creating an alias is fairly straightforward.

### Create an Alias 01:45-02:17

You have to know the alias name, and you have to know the command you want to alias. The basic anatomy of the alias command is alias followed by an equal sign followed by the command. Suppose I wanted to alias the command that lists all subdirectories of a given directory. That command is ls -d, and I want the alias to be ld. To create it, I first type alias. Next, l type the alias name—in this case, ld. Finally, in single quotes, I enter the command that's being aliased.

### View Defined Aliases 02:17-02:31

To see a list of defined aliases, simply run the alias command with no parameters to produce a listing of them. In this example, you can see that both the plus and minus keys have been defined as shortcuts. This list here shows you that you can use pretty much any alphanumeric key.

### Multiple Commands in a Single Alias 02:31-02:55

You might want to combine multiple commands into one alias. You also might want to utilize the pipe to combine commands, or you might want to use a semi-colon to separate them. One example is mounting a CD and displaying the accompanying mounted devices. Here, the first command mounts the CD-ROM. The second displays the mounted devices. And the third command filters the output, looking for the keyword cdrom.

### Make Aliases Persistent 02:55-03:43

Now, when you use the command line to create an alias, it's not persistent. Once you exit the Terminal, the alias disappears. But it's possible to retain aliases and have them reappear every time. Furthermore, the system administrator can create persistent aliases for everyone on the system, and you can create aliases just for you. While different Linux distributions put the default aliases in different places, a common location for system-wide alias definitions is /etc/bashrc. There's a hidden file called .bashrc in the Home directory for when someone creates their own alias. You can add aliases there as well, and every time you boot your system, those custom ones will be there. Again, your distribution may use a different file schema to store things. Consult your system documentation to find the right files to modify.

### Remove an Alias 03:43-04:00

From time to time, there might be an alias that interferes with a command you're trying to execute. When this happens, you probably need to remove the alias. You do this by typing unalias followed by the name. This removes it, and if it's persistent, it returns the next time you log in or begin a new Terminal session.

### Summary 04:00-04:21

That's it for our lesson. The alias command provides a function to shortcut complex commands and those you use often. We learned how to create a new alias, show a list of aliases, create them for multiple commands, make them persistent, and how to remove an existing alias if needs be.

## 2.4.2 Use Aliases

### Use Aliases 00:00-00:17

In this demonstration, we're going to talk about using aliases. The alias command is used to manage aliases within your shell environment. In fact, several different aliases are automatically defined for you whenever you log in to your Linux system.

### View Aliases 00:17-00:38

You can view these aliases by running alias at the shell prompt. As you can see, I have several aliases that were defined for me when I logged in to the system. For example, there's the l alias, which runs the ls -CF command. We also have the ll alias, which runs ls with the -alf option, displays the output in long format, and so on.

### Define New Aliases 00:38-01:23

You're not stuck with these aliases that were automatically defined for you. You can add and remove aliases as needed. For example, if you work with both Windows and Linux systems, there have probably been times when you've accidentally tried to run the Windows cls command to clear the screen instead of the Linux clear command.

To use the cls command, you can create an alias for it. This is done by entering alias and then the new alias you want to be able to use, which in this example is cls. This is followed by the = sign, and then in single quotes, the command you want to run instead of cls, which is clear. As soon as you press Enter, the alias is available. You can see this by running alias again. From the output, we see that the alias was added. You can also test it out by running cls. We see it cleared the screen because it ran the clear command.

### Persistent Aliases 01:23-02:19

It's important to note that even though I've defined this alias, it's not persistent. In other words, if I were to reboot the system, the cls alias I just defined would be gone. To make an alias persistent, the alias needs to be added to the appropriate shell configuration file. The file that you'll use depends on which distribution you're using. For this distribution, which is Ubuntu, the shell file is a hidden file named .bashrc. Let's use nano to edit that file.

In this file, there are several locations where aliases have been defined. Where you add your custom aliases is just a matter of organizational preferences. So, for this example, I'm going to page down to the bottom of the file and add a comment of # User specific aliases. Then, under that line, I'll use the same syntax we used earlier to add the new cls alias. I'll press Ctrl+X to save the modified buffer and save the file using the default file name. Now every time I boot the system, the cls alias will be automatically created for me.

### Aliases with Multiple Commands 02:19-04:17

Notice that with the cls alias we just defined, it only runs a single command when we type cls at the shell prompt. If that's all you need, that's fine. However, if needed, aliases can contain multiple commands.

For example, when I list the contents of my home directory, you see a folder named temp. And when we list the contents of that directory, we see several files. As the directory name implies, these files were used for some temporary purpose and don't need to be saved. So, from time to time, I may want to delete these.

If I were to do that manually, I'd first need to cd into the temp folder from wherever I'm at. Then I'd need to run the rm \* command to delete all the files and then type cd ~ to go back to my home directory. As you can see, this took three commands to complete. So rather than running these three commands every time I want to clean out my temp folder, I could create one alias to do all three commands for me.

To do that, I'd create the alias—typically in my shell configuration file—by entering alias and the name of the alias, which in this example, we'll use cleartemp. This is followed by our equal sign and a single quotation mark (') and then the first command I want to run, which is to cd into the temp folder. Notice that by using the tilde, I know that no matter where I'm currently at, the cd command will start at my home directory and then take me into the temp folder.

To separate this command from the next, we use a semicolon (;), followed by the second command, which is to remove all the files. In this case, the -v is the verbose option, displaying exactly what's being deleted. This command ends with another semicolon, and then we add the last command, which is to move me back to my home directory. Since there are no other commands, we end the creation of this alias with a closing single quotation mark and then press Enter.

To test this out, let's first change to the root of our system. Now, to clear my temp directory, all I need to do is to type cleartemp and press Enter. Notice that the files were removed and that I'm now back in my home directory. To verify that the files are really gone, I'll run ls ./temp, and we see that all the files are indeed gone.

### Remove Aliases 04:17-04:58

Before ending this demonstration, I want to show you how you can remove a currently active alias. This could be one you've created on the fly, like our last alias, or one created at startup.

For example, let's say we decide that we don't want the cls alias anymore. Maybe you're afraid that if you keep using it, you'll forget what the real command is. To do this, all you need to do is to type unalias followed by the name of the alias you want to remove—in this case, cls—and then press Enter.

Now, when I try to run cls, we see the command's not found. Keep in mind, however, that if the alias was added to your shell configuration file, like this one was, to remove the alias permanently, you'd have to edit the configuration file and remove the alias from there.

### Summary 04:58-05:17

In this demonstration, we talked about managing aliases at the shell prompt. We showed you how to view a list of existing aliases, define a new alias that contains one command, create an alias that contains multiple commands, and remove an alias.

## 2.4.3 Alias Facts

This lesson covers aliases.

### Alias

An alias is a shortcut stored in memory that runs a command on your Linux system. Most distributions include predefined aliases that are created at system startup. However, a custom alias can be defined from the shell prompt. Be aware of the following:

<ul><li>Aliases defined with the <b >alias</b> command are not persistent across reboots.</li>
<li>To make aliases persistent across reboots, add the alias definitions to <b >/etc/profile</b> or <b >/home/
<em>user</em>
/.bashrc</b> .</li></ul>

The following table describes the commands that create and remove aliases:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" >
Command</th>
<th scope="col" >Function</th>
<th scope="col" >Example</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >alias</b></td>
<td>Displays the currently defined aliases on the system.</td>
<td>[rtracy@fs5 ~]$ <b >alias</b> <br>
<br>
alias egrep='egrep --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias fgrep='fgrep --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias grep='grep --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias l.='ls -d .* --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias ll='ls -l --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias ls='ls --color=auto'
<br>
<br>
alias which='alias | /usr/bin/which --tty-only --read-alias --show-dot --show-tilde'</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >alias [name='command']</b></td>
<td>Creates a custom alias that runs an existing command. A single alias can be defined to run multiple commands.
<div><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
When creating the alias, encapsulate the command(s) with quotation marks or apostrophes.</span></div></div></div></div></td>
<td><b >alias securebackup='cp ./*.* /dev/st0/*.*;shred -fuvz ./*'</b> creates an alias that copies all files in the current directory to a tape backup device and then shreds the original files.
<br>
<br> <b >alias forcelogout="killall /usr/bin/Xorg"</b> creates a shortcut that kills all Xserver processes.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b >unalias [name]</b></td>
<td>Removes an alias.</td>
<td><b >unalias securebackup</b> removes the alias specified for the <b >securebackup</b> command.
<br>
<br> <b >unalias forcelogout</b> deletes the forcelogout alias.</td></tr></tbody></table>
