---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.6 Shell Configuration Files
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is a shell configuration file?</li>
    <li>In what order do configuration scripts execute?</li>
    <li>What is the difference between a login shell and a non-login shell?</li>
<li>What does the <b class="fw-bold">su -l</b> command do?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- View shell configuration files

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
   <thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Term</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Definition</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td>Login shell</td>
     <td>A shell that runs after the user successfully logs
            in using a user ID and password.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Non-login shell</td>
     <td>A shell that is opened without requiring the user
            to authenticate with a user ID and password.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>Shell configuration file</td>
     <td>A special file containing a script that is run
            during a shell startup.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Exam</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Objective</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
     <td>1.2 Configure and use Linux shell environments
      <ul><li>Manage environment variables</li></ul></td></tr>
    <tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
     <td>2.2 Given a scenario, implement identity 
			management
      <ul><li>Account creation and deletion
        <br>
        <ul><li>Configuration files
          <br>
          <ul><li>.bashrc</li>
           <li>.bash_profile</li>
           <li>/etc/profile</li></ul></li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.6.1 Shell Configuration Files

### Shell Configuration Files 00:00-00:38

In this lesson, we're going to look at shell configuration files. Basically, you can customize your Bash shell environment by manipulating several different configuration files. Be aware that these aren't your typical configuration files. With a standard configuration file, there's a standard text file. It has a parameter, usually an equals sign, and then the value you want to assign to that parameter. A Bash shell configuration file doesn't work like that. These files are scripts that run whenever the shell session has started or whenever you log out of it. They'll also depend on which distribution you're using and the type of shell as well.

### Login Shell 00:38-00:51

There are two basic categories of shells you should be familiar with. The first one is called a login shell. A login shell is in use if your system has booted into a text-based login screen and if you use a text-based command line environment.

### Login Shell Interaction 00:51-01:12

An example of this is shown here. On this system, I've booted into a text-based environment as the ksanders user, and now I'm interacting with the system from the command prompt. Even if your Linux system is configured to boot to a GUI environment, the login shell is still created at bootup. You just don't necessarily see it.

### Non-Login Shell 01:12-01:42

There's also a non-login shell. These start from within a running system. In this example, I've booted to my graphical environment, and I've opened a terminal window. This is a non-login shell. It's "non-login" because I didn't have to sign in to access the command prompt. I'd already logged in to my graphical environment beforehand. The distinction is important because the type of shell you're using will dictate which configuration files are used to customize that particular environment. Also, be aware that different distributions use different file combinations.

On some distributions, it's `/etc/bash.bashrc`.

### Non-Login Shell Configuration Files 01:42-03:03

Either way, both are used to configure non-login shells. They define system-wide functions and aliases for your shell sessions. There's also bashrc, but it's a hidden file, and it's located in each individual user's home directory. That's what this little tilde mark means right here—it's the user's home directory. And the period before the filename defines it as hidden. On Linux, any file you see that starts with a period is a hidden file.

Now, .bashrc in the user's home directory is used to configure login shells as well. The difference is that it stores user-specific functions and aliases. So /etc/bashrc contains functions and aliases for all users on the system, and .bashrc in the user's home directory contains functions and aliases for just that individual user. Even though bashrc is used to configure non-login shells, the login shells on most distributions will actually use this file right here as well. They'll call it right from the login shell configuration file. That's to make sure that the user-specific functions and aliases are defined whether the user is logging in from a login or a non-login shell. The two sets of files pointed out here are for non-login shells.

### Login Shell Configuration Files 03:03-04:17

On the other hand, /etc/profile and all the files in the /etc/profile.d directory are used for login shells. These files contain system-wide shell configuration parameters. The .bash_profile file in your user's home directory—again, it's a hidden file—is also used to configure login shells, but it stores user-specific shell preferences, whereas /etc/profile stores system-wide ones. In other words, they're applied to everyone. Now, on some distributions, you won't find the .bash_profile file in the user's home directory. It'll instead be just .profile.

So you'll need to look at the files in each individual user's home directory to see which one your distribution uses. Some also use these two files here: .bash_login and .bash_logout. Both are hidden files located in a user's home directory. As the names imply, they contain shell preferences that are given either when the user logs in or when they log out. These two also apply only to login shells. Just remember that /etc/bashrc and .bashrc apply to non-login shells, and all the rest apply to login shells.

### Shell Configuration Files Precedence 04:17-04:43

Also, be aware of the fact that if a login shell is being created, the shell program searches for configuration files in the order shown here. First, it looks for .bash_profile. If it can't find that one, it looks for .bash_login. Then, if it can't find that file, it looks for .profile. The important thing to remember is that the shell will use the first one that it finds. All the rest will be ignored.

### Summary 04:43-05:01

And that's going to wrap up this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed the files that are used to configure the Bash shell. First, we talked about the difference between a login and a non-login shell session. We ended by reviewing the different configuration files for each type of shell.

## 2.6.2 View Shell Configuration Files

### View Shell Configuration Files 00:00-01:23

In this demonstration, I'm going to show you how to view the bash shell configuration files used on a Linux system and give you a brief introduction to how they function. Linux uses bash shell configuration files to set up such things as the user's environment variables, any aliases that are desired, and specific programs to run at startup. The default bash configuration files on your system may vary slightly depending on the Linux distribution used.

The bash shell configuration files you may see in a user's home directory include: .bash_profile, .profile, .bash_login, and .bash_logout, among others. These files are automatically created each time a user is added to your system, and their contents come from the default files found in the /etc/skel directory.

The first thing to note about the bash shell configuration files in your home directory is that they're hidden files. For example, when I run pwd, you see I'm in the home directory of the jsmith user, but when I run the ls command, you don't see any bash files. To see hidden files, let's run ls with the -a option. From this output, you see the bash files currently on this system. Keep in mind that the period not only hides the file but is part of the file name, meaning that if you want to work with the file, you must include the period when referencing the file.

### Login Execution Order 01:23-02:09

When learning about bash shell configuration files, it's also important to note that different files are used depending on whether the shell is a login or a non-login shell. Login shells are used when logging onto a system or switching to a different user using the --login option.

When logging into a system, your computer first looks for a system-wide /etc/profile bash file. Once this file has been run, it next looks in the home directory for a file named .bash_profile. If this file's found, it will source, or run, that file and stop looking for any other bash file. If the .bash_profile isn't found, then it looks for the .profile file and will source it instead. And if it doesn't find that, it looks for the .bash_login file.

### About `/etc/profile` 02:09-02:41

With that understanding of how the login scripts are processed, let's look at a few of these files. Let's start by first displaying the `/etc/profile` file. Although each distribution may configure its bash files differently, the `/etc/profile` file, as can be seen here, is often used to configure the default command line prompt. In addition, it may be used to configure PATH variables, user limits, and other settings. Notice down here that it will also look in the profile.d directory and run any shell scripts it contains.

### About `.bash_profile` 02:41-03:20

Next, let's look at an example of a .bash_profile file. As I mentioned earlier, some distributions don't use this file. Instead, they just use the .profile file. This is the case with this Ubuntu distribution.

So, for demonstration purposes only, I've created this simple example of a .bash_profile file so we can see the flow of how the login scripts are used. As you can see, all this file's doing is looking for the .profile file and sourcing it if it's found. Also, notice that I've added an echo statement at the top to help us see when this file's used. This is something that's there just for demonstration purposes.

### About `.profile` 03:20-04:40

With this Ubuntu distribution, most of the bash shell configuration's done with the .profile file. When we open this file using the nano editor, we see some common configurations used. For example, here you see that we're checking for the .bashrc file and running it if found. Then below that, we see where different PATHs are being configured.

If needed, you could add other configurations here as well. For example, let's add alias cls='clear'. That'll allow me to clear the screen using cls instead of needing to type out clear. Also, notice that I've added another echo statement at the top to let us know when this file's run. I'll press Ctrl+x to save the changes made to the buffer and save it using the same file name.

Okay, to see how all this fits together, let's initiate a login shell by running su jsmith --login. Using the --login command-line option tells the substitute user command to run all the login scripts that'd normally be run if the user was logging in. Notice that when I press Enter and enter the password, the .bash_profile file was found, which displayed our first echo line. This file then told the system to run the .profile file, which in turn told the system to run the .bashrc file.

### About `.bashrc` 04:40-06:02

Now that you see how the bash configuration files work with login shells let's discuss non-login bash shells. An example of a non-login shell is the terminal we have open here. The .bashrc configuration file is known as a non-login shell because no authentication was required to run the shell session. Instead, the authentication was checked when I logged into my system. However, as you just saw, this file's also used whenever you open a login shell session.

As with the login shells, the non-login shell uses a file in the /etc directory named bash.bashrc. This is where you'd put any settings or commands that you'd want to apply to all users of the computer. In most cases, however, you'll use the .bashrc file found in the home directory to make customized changes for an individual user. For example, here you see where the maximum size of our history files is being configured. Then, as I move further down, we see where the color of our desktop is being configured. And on the next page, you see where several aliases are being configured.

Let's close this terminal to see the difference in how the bash shells are used and open a new terminal. Notice that when the new terminal was opened, the only bash configuration file to run was our .bashrc file, as seen by the echo line we added to this file.

### Look at .bash_logout 06:02-06:37

Before ending this demo, I also want to briefly mention the .bash_logout file. This file's only run when an interactive login shell exits or a non-interactive login shell runs the built-in exit or logout command, depending on which shell environment you're in. With some distributions, this file doesn't contain any information. However, on Ubuntu, when we view this file, we see there's a command to increase privacy by clearing the console. If you want, you can add additional commands as well. For example, you may want to add a command to clear the history.

### Summary 06:37-07:01

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we talked about the shell configuration files that reside within your home directory: .bash_profile, .profile, and .bash_logout. And we also pointed out the global bash configuration file in the /etc directory named bash.bashrc.

## 2.6.3 Shell Configuration Facts

Shell configuration files are scripts that execute when a shell starts.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Shell types
- Shell configuration files
- Login shell configuration script precedence

### Shell Types

There are two shell types that determine which shell configuration files are executed.

<ul><li>Login shells run after the user successfully logs in using a user ID
        and password. For example:
    <ul><li>When the user logs in using the GUI.
      <div class="info" data-block="
       A login shell runs in the background when
              a user first logs in using the GUI, so the effects from any
              configuration file are not easily seen."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       A login shell runs in the background when
              a user first logs in using the GUI, so the effects from any
              configuration file are not easily seen.</span></div></div></div></div></li>
     <li>When the Linux system does not have a GUI and the user logs in
            using the text-based interface.</li>
     <li>When the Linux system has a GUI, but a user logs into the
            text-based console using the Ctrl + Alt+ F2 key combination.</li>
     <li>When a user runs the <b class="fw-bold">su -l &lt;user ID&gt;</b> (or just the <b class="fw-bold">su
              -</b> , which implies the -l) command and enters the correct
            password.</li>
     <li>When a user runs the <b class="fw-bold">sudo -i &lt;user ID&gt;</b> command and
            enters the correct password.</li>
     <li>When a user logs in from a remote system using the SSH protocol.</li></ul></li>
   <li>Non-login shells run when a user opens a shell after first
        authenticating with a user ID and password. For example:
    <ul><li>When a user opens a shell session (terminal application) from
            within the GUI.</li>
     <li>When a user runs the <b class="fw-bold">su &lt;user ID&gt;</b> command without
            the <b class="fw-bold">-l</b> or <b class="fw-bold">-</b> options.</li>
     <li>When a user runs the <b class="fw-bold">sudo &lt;user ID&gt;</b> command without
            the <b class="fw-bold">-i</b> option.</li>
     <li>When a user executes a script from within a shell.</li>
     <li>When a user opens a new shell from a shell prompt.</li></ul></li></ul>

> One way to determine the shell type is to run the echo $0 command. If this command returns a dash followed by the name of the shell (for example, -bash ), then it is a login shell. If the command returns the name of the shell without the dash or returns the name of the command that created the shell (for example, bash or su ), then it is a non-login shell.

### Shell Configuration Files

Shell configuration files are scripts that are run during shell startup. The following configuration files are run when a shell starts.

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Configuration File</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Run by</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Shell Type</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/etc/bashrc</b> or
      <br> <b class="fw-bold">/etc/bash.bashrc</b></td>
     <td>All users</td>
     <td>Non-login</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">~/.bashrc</b></td>
     <td>The specified user only</td>
     <td>Non-login
      <div class="info" data-block="
       On most Linux distributions, this file is
              also called by login shell configuration files."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       On most Linux distributions, this file is
              also called by login shell configuration files.</span></div></div></div></div></td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/etc/profile</b></td>
     <td>All users</td>
     <td>Login</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">*. sh files in the
       <br>
       /etc/profile.d/ directory</b></td>
     <td>All users</td>
     <td>Login
      <div class="info" data-block="
       On most Linux distributions, this file is
              also called by non-login shell configuration files."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       On most Linux distributions, this file is
              also called by non-login shell configuration files.</span></div></div></div></div></td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">~/.bash_profile</b></td>
     <td>The specified user only</td>
     <td>Login</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">~/.bash_login</b></td>
     <td>The specified user only</td>
     <td>Login</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">~/.profile</b></td>
     <td>The specified user only</td>
     <td>Login</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">~/.bash_logout</b></td>
     <td>The specified user only</td>
     <td>Login
      <div class="info" data-block="
       This file is only run as the user logs out
              (runs the <b>exit</b> command)."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
       This file is only run as the user logs out
              (runs the <b>exit</b> command).</span></div></div></div></div></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Login Shell Configuration Script Precedence

Login shells execute the configuration scripts they use in the following order:

<ol><li><b class="fw-bold">/etc/profile</b></li>
<li><b class="fw-bold">~/.bash_profile</b> (if this file is found, the shell does not look for additional configuration script files).</li>
<li><b class="fw-bold">~/.bash_login</b> (if this file is found, the shell does not look for additional configuration script files).</li>
<li><b class="fw-bold">~/.profile</b> (this file executes only in the absence of the two preceding configuration script files).</li></ol>
