---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.8 Directories
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Which shortcut should you use with <b >cd</b> to move directly to the home directory?</li>
<li>What is the functional difference between <b >rm</b> and <b >rmdir</b> ?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Work with directories</li>
    <li>Create directories</li>
<li>Delete directories</li></ul>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead><tr><th>Exam</th>
<th  >
Objective</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
<td>2.2 Manage the file system
<ul><li>View information about directories and files in the file system</li>
<li>Use the Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard</li>
<li>Create, copy, move, and delete directories in the file system</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
<td>1.2 Given a scenario, manage files and directories
<br>
<ul><li>File and directory operations
<ul><li>mv</li>
<li>cp</li>
<li>ls</li>
<li>mkdir</li>
<li>rmdir</li>
<li>pwd</li>
<li>rm</li>
<li>cd</li>
<li>.</li>
<li>..</li>
<li>~</li>
<li>tree</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.8.1 Directory Navigation

## 2.8.2 Navigate Directories

## 2.8.3 Directory Management

## 2.8.4 Manage Directories

## 2.8.5 Directory Management Facts

Navigating within and making changes to the directory structure are tasks you will frequently perform when using a Linux system.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Navigate a Linux directory</li>
   <li>Create, copy, and move a Linux directory</li>
<li>Remove a Linux directory</li></ul>

### Navigate a Linux Directory

The following table describes basic commands to navigate within a Linux directory.

<table id="table1">
<thead><tr><th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Examples</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >pwd</b></td>
<td>Displays the current working directory.</td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li>If a user named fred is currently in his home directory and types <b >pwd</b> at the shell prompt, <i>/home/fred</i> is displayed.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >cd</b></td>
<td>Changes the present working directory.
<ul><li><b >cd ..</b> changes to the parent directory.</li>
<li><b >cd ../..</b> to changes two levels up in the directory.</li>
<li><b >cd /</b> changes to the root directory.</li></ul></td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >cd directory1</b> changes to a directory named <i >directory1</i> within the current working directory. (This is a
relative path.)</li>
<li><b >cd /home/fred/directory1</b> switches to <i >directory1</i> in Fred's home directory, regardless of the current working directory. (This is an absolute path.)</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >ls</b></td>
<td>Displays the contents of a directory. Options include:
<ul><li><b >-a</b> displays all directory contents, including hidden content.</li>
<li><b >-l</b> displays extended information, including the owner, modified date, size, and permissions.</li>
<li><b >-R</b> displays the contents of a directory and all of its subdirectories.</li>
<li><b >-d</b> displays directories but not files.</li>
<li><b >-r</b> reverses the sort order.</li></ul></td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >ls -al</b> displays a long listing of all the contents in the current working directory, including hidden content.</li>
<li><b >ls -d</b> displays only directories within the current directory.</li>
<li><b >ls -R /etc</b> displays the contents of the /etc directory and all of its subdirectories.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Create, Copy, and Move a Linux Directory

The following table describes basic commands to manage a Linux directory:

<table><thead><tr><th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Examples</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >mkdir</b></td>
<td>Creates a new directory. Use the <b >-p</b> option to create all directories within the specified path when that path does not already exist.</td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >mkdir work_files</b> creates a directory named 
<i >work_files</i> in the current working directory.</li>
<li><b >mkdir /home/fred/work_files</b> creates a directory named <i >work_files</i> within the specified path.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >cp</b></td>
<td>Copies directories. Copying leaves the source contents (directories and files) intact. Use the <strong >-r</strong>
or -R option to recursively copy subdirectories and files within the directory.</td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >cp -r /temp /home/user</b> copies the entire <i >/temp</i> directory (with all of its files, subdirectories, and
files in the subdirectories) to the <i >/home/user</i> directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >mv</b></td>
<td>Moves or renames directories (and files). Moving directories removes the source directory and places it in the destination.
Options include:
<ul><li><b >-f</b> overwrites a directory that already exist in the destination directory without prompting.</li>
<li><b >-i</b> prompts before overwriting a directory in the destination directory.</li>
<li><b >-n</b> never overwrites files in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >mv /temp/station ~/doc/</b> moves <i >station</i> from the <i >/temp</i> directory to the <i >~/doc</i> directory.</li>
<li><strong >mv /current /previous</strong>
renames the directory <i >current</i> to <i >previous</i> .</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Remove a Linux Directory

The following table describes basic commands to remove a Linux directory:

<table><thead><tr><th>Command</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Examples</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >rmdir</b></td>
<td>Deletes an empty directory.</td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >rmdir ~/fred/work_files</b> deletes the <i class="fs-italicize">work_files</i> directory if it is empty.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >rm</b></td>
<td>Removes the directory and file information from the file system, which makes the directories and files inaccessible.
Options include:
<ul><li><b >-i</b> prompts before removing.</li>
<li><b >-r</b> removes directories, subdirectories, and files within them.</li>
<li><b >-f</b> eliminates prompt for read-only files and avoids an exit code error if a file doesn't exist.</li></ul></td>
<td valign="top">
<ul><li><b >rm -rf /home/user/temp</b> deletes the temp directory with all its subdirectories and files without
prompting.</li>
<li><b >rm -r /home/user/*</b> deletes all directories and files in the <i class="fs-italicize">/home/user</i> directory.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
