---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.9 Files
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>How can you display only the first few lines of a file?</li>
<li>Why is <b >tail</b> used more often than <b >head</b> ?</li>
<li>How can you use <b >tail</b> to monitor a specified file while troubleshooting the system?</li>
<li>What is the difference between <b >cp</b> and <b >mv</b> ?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>View the contents of files</li>
    <li>Delete files</li>
    <li>Move files</li>
    <li>Use <b >stat</b></li>
<li>Delete files and directories</li></ul>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead><tr><th> Exam</th>
<th >Objective</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
<td>1.1 Use command-line utilities
<ul><li>View, search, and edit the contents of text files</li></ul>
<p>2.2 Manage the file system</p>
<ul><li>View information about directories and files in the file
system</li>
<li>Create, copy, move, and delete directories in the file 
system</li>
<li>Create, copy, move, and delete files in the file system</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
<td>1.2 Given a scenario, manage files and directories.
<br>
<ul><li>File editing</li>
<li>File metadata</li>
<ul><li>stat</li></ul>
<li>Files and directory operations</li>
<ul><li>mv</li>
<li>cp</li>
<li>ls</li>
<li>pwd</li>
<li>cd</li>
<li>rm</li>
<li>cat</li>
<li>touch</li></ul></ul>
2.5 Given a scenario, apply the appropriate access controls.
<br>
<ul><li>Command-line utilities</li>
<ul><li>lsattr</li>
<li>chattr</li></ul></ul>
3.1 Given a scenario, create simple shell scripts to automate common tasks.
<br>
<ul><li>Common script utilities</li>
<ul><li>head</li>
<li>tail</li></ul></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.9.1 Commands for Viewing Files

### Commands for Viewing Files 00:00-00:50

In this lesson, we're going to review several commands that you can use to view the contents of files within the Linux file system. Knowing how to do this is a critical skill for a Linux administrator. For example, your Linux system, and all the services running on the system, are primarily configured using text files that are usually stored in the /etc directory within the file system.

Linux uses text files to configure and manage just about everything in the system, so you frequently need to view the contents of these files. One way to do this would be to use a text editor to open the file for viewing. However, this could be excessive. There are many occasions when you would want to quickly see what's in the file without loading a full text editor.

Linux provides you with a variety of command line tools that you can use to accomplish this.

### The `cat` Command 00:50-02:09

One of the most frequently used commands on Linux for viewing files is the cat command. In this example, we will run cat, followed by the file name that you want, and then the text will be displayed in the shell prompt. We specified the full path to the file that we want to look at, /etc/ssh/sshd_config. This file is used to configure the secure shell service running on our system.

Notice, after I type that command, the contents of the file are listed on the screen. As with any other Linux command, we can use either an absolute path or a relative path to the file that we want to display. In this case, I used an absolute path by specifying the full path to the file, starting at the root of the file system down to the file itself. If I were already in the /etc/sshd directory, I wouldn't have to specify the full path. I could instead just type cat sshd_config. Because I didn't supply a path, the shell would assume that the file that I'm looking for is in the current directory. If found, the file would display on the screen.

The cat command does have one key weakness, the output does not pause. If you are using cat to view a file that is longer than one page, then it will scroll off of the screen, which is what's happened in this example.

### Piping `cat` Through the more Command 02:09-02:29

Frequently, you are going to want to pause the output a page at a time, so you can actually see what's in the file. One way to do this is to pipe the output of the cat command to the input of the more command.

The more command takes the given input, displays the first page on the screen, and then waits for you to hit a key on the keyboard to go on to the next screen.

### The `less` Command 02:29-03:58

In addition to cat, you can also use the less command to view Linux files. The less command can be very useful. Like cat, the less command displays the contents of a text file on the screen. However, it addresses the key weakness that we just discussed with the cat command. The less command automatically pauses the output of a long text file on the screen, one page at a time.

Then you can use the space bar, page up, page down, and arrow keys to navigate within the output. In this example, I type the less command, a space, and then the name of the file that I want to view. I used the same file I viewed previously, /etc/ssh/sshd_config. Notice, the less command pauses the output one page at a time so I can see what's in the file.

Using less has a couple of key advantages over `cat`, primarily with navigation.

If you cat a file, take the output, and pipe to more, the more command goes one direction only, and that is down in the file. If I am piping the output of the cat command more and I hit the space bar, it goes down a page. But if I need to go back up a page, say I missed something, I can't. I must exit out and re-type the command again.

The less command, on the other hand, allows you to go forward, backwards – whatever direction you need – in the output of the command, until you find the information that you need. less is a flexible and useful file viewing utility.

### The `head` Command 03:58-04:34

Another command that you can use to view the contents of a file on a Linux system is the head command. head displays the first few lines of the file you specify on the screen. As you can see here, I ran the head command, specified the name of the file – `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` – and first few lines of the file are displayed.

This file is actually several pages long, but the head command just grabbed the first ten lines – which is the default – put them on the screen, and then, exited out. There may be instances where you want to only view the beginning of a file. In that case, the head command is useful.

### The `tail` Command 04:34-05:05

The `tail` command is the opposite of the head command. Where the head command displays the first few lines at the beginning of the file, the `tail` command displays the last few lines at the end of the file.

`tail` command is very useful when you are displaying some files, such as log files, because a log file is created incrementally. The oldest entries are at the beginning, and the newest entries are at the end. In this example, the `tail` command was used to display the last few lines of the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file.

### The `tail –f` Option 05:05-06:18

The `tail` command includes an option that can be really useful, `-f`. When you use the `-f` option, the tail command continuously monitors the file. If new content is added to the end, like with a log file, the new lines will be displayed by the `tail` command as they are added. This can be useful in troubleshooting a problem on your system, such as a misbehaving service or configuration problem.

In this case we've run the `tail -f` command in one window. Notice, I'm running `tail -f` and looking at the firewalld file located in the `/var/log` directory. You can see that right here. The firewalld file in `/var/log` is my firewall log file. In this situation, I could be having a problem with my firewall service, and so I'm monitoring the firewall log file with the `tail -f` command.

Over in this other window, I'm doing various things, trying to troubleshoot what is wrong with my firewall. In this case, I'm stopping the firewall service and starting it again. As I do that, the entries that are added to the firewalld log file are dynamically displayed by the `tail -f` command. tail command will continue to monitor the file until we say stop by pressing Control+C.

### Summary 06:18-06:35

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we reviewed the various commands that you can use to view the contents of Linux files. We talked about the cat command, the less command, the tail command, and the head command.

## 2.9.2 File Management

### File Management 00:00-00:28

Managing files is a key skill for Linux administrators. In this lesson, we'll look at some of the most common file management concepts.

Let's start with a basic skill: creating a new file. There are multiple ways to do this. One way is to simply open an application that creates files, such as a text editor or an Office application, go `File > New > Add Contents` to File, and then save it.

### The `touch` Command 00:28-01:16

If you need to create a file with no contents, you can use the touch command at the shell prompt. You simply enter touch at the command prompt followed by the name of the file you want to create. This creates a 0-byte file.

In this example, I created a new file named mylog in the current directory, which is my home directory. I did this by running touch, specifying the file name of mylog, and then running the `ls -I` command. This created an empty file in the home directory.

You can use either a relative path or an absolute path. In this example, a relative path was used because I didn't specify any path information for the new file. Without specification, the touch command assumes it belongs in the current directory, which is my home directory represented by the tilde (~). A full path would need to be entered to create the file somewhere else in the system.

### The file Command 01:16-02:01

Next, let's discuss how to determine a Linux file type. Unlike other operating systems, like Windows, Linux does not commonly use file extension like .txt for text files or .exe for executable files. A simple way to discover the Linux file type is to use the file command at the shell prompt. The output will provide the general file type, such as a directory, a named pipe, a link file, or a standard file. The file command does this by comparing the specified file with file signatures contained in the /usr/share/misc/magic directory, the /usr/share/misc/magic.mgc file, and the /etc/magic file.

### The rm Command 02:01-02:48

Next, let's look at deleting files from Linux. You can use the rm command to delete files or directories. To delete a file, enter rm followed by the name of the file to be deleted. In this example, there's a file within my user's /home directory named logfile. By entering rm logfile at the shell prompt and then running the ls command again, the logfile was removed. It would have been right there.

As with all Linux commands, when the full path to a logfile isn't specified, the rm process assumed the file to delete was in the current directory. Since it was there, it was deleted. To delete a file that's not in the current directory, a full path to the file must be provided. When using the rm command, keep in mind that it will not prompt you to confirm the deletion command. It'll just execute the deletion.

### The cp Command 02:48-03:22

Now, let's talk about copying and moving files using the shell prompt. The same utilities you use for copying and moving directories are used for copying and moving files. To copy a file from one location in the file system to another, use the cp command. In this example, the file named widgetdesign is specified to be copied from the /mnt directory to my user's /home directory, represented by the tilde (~). Then we run the ls command, and the file is copied to the /home directory with the original file staying intact in the /mnt directory.

### The mv Command: Move a File 03:22-03:48

To move a file, use the mv command. This will copy the file from its current location, add it to the new location, and delete the original file.

Let's use the same widgetdesign file for this example, located in the /mnt directory. This time, we'll move it to my user's /home directory, called /home/rtracy, as indicated by the tilde (~) once again. This copies the file from /mnt to my user's directory and deletes the original version from /mnt.

### The mv Command: Rename a File 03:48-04:11

The mv command can also rename files. To do this, enter mv followed by the name of the file to be renamed and then followed by the new name. Here, we're using relative paths, and I want the widgetdesign file renamed in the current directory, which is my user's home directory. To rename it widgetproject, we run mv widgetdesign widegetproject, and that does it. It's renamed.

### The shred Command 04:11-04:32

The final command we'll look at in this lesson is the shred command. This command is used to completely remove a file. This is important to understand because when you delete a file using the rm command, the file's inode is deleted, but the file's data remains on the hard drive. This can be a security issue. So, to completely eliminate the file's contents, use the shred command.

### The shred Command Options 04:32-05:18

To do this, enter the "shred -u" command followed by the name of the file to be deleted. In this example, we'll delete the widgetproject file. This process will delete the inode of the file, then it will find the area where the data resides on the hard disk. The shred process will then overwrite that area over and over to remove the data. By default, it will do this 25 times. You can enter a custom number of passes by using the -n option in the command, as shown here. We chose 35 passes for this process. You can choose up to a thousand passes if you want.

In our example here, we also included the -z option. This specifies that the shred process overwrites the data with zeros. This can disguise the data area on the hard drive making it look as if the file wasn't shredded.

### Summary 05:18-05:47

Well, that's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about using several commands for file management. First, we talked about using touch to create a file. Then we talked about using the file command to determine the file's type. Next, we reviewed how to use the cp command to copy files and the mv command to move or rename files. Then we looked at using either the rm command or the shred command to delete files.

## 2.9.3 View File Contents

### View File Contents 00:00-00:28

In this demonstration, we're going to discuss viewing the contents of files in Linux file. Viewing a file's contents is a key skill that all Linux administrators must learn. Being able to view files, such as configuration settings, will be a skill used every day.

We're going to look at several different utilities. First, we'll look at the cat command, the less command, and the head command. We'll then we'll look at the tail command.

### Using the cat Comand 00:28-01:08

Let's begin with the cat command. Cat is very commonly used. It reads files and writes the context to the screen. In my /home directory, I can see a file called myfile. This file has a small bit of text, and I need to view it. To accomplish this, I type cat myfile. When I push Enter, the contents are read and then displayed. This file contains only one line of text that says, "this is my new file."

Cat doesn't pause the output of a very long file. When I run cat on a short file, myfile, it works great. However, when viewing a large file, the simple cat command will display all elements of the file at once.

### Use cat with more 01:08-01:31

There is something you can use to slow the cat command output—pipe it to the more command. I type cat, then the file name logfile, and then add the pipe character (|), followed by the more command. This pauses the output one page at a time, and I can use the spacebar to go through the pages one by one. If I want to get out, I press q, which will close out the file.

### Use cat with less 01:31-02:28

The less command works similarly to the cat with more. In fact, like the cat command, the less command will read the contents of the file, write it to the screen, and pause the contents one page at a time. I type less, followed by logfile, and then press Enter.

Less has one key advantage; it allows you to go down pages and back up. Suppose you're reviewing the log file for a specific issue. You're reviewing the pages and missed what you wanted; using cat with less, you can page up to go back.

Another advantage less has over the more command, and the cat command is the fact that you can search for specific text within the file specified. To do this, you enter a '/' and then enter the search term you're looking for. Let's say we want to find information about boot. I hit Enter, and when I do, the instances of boot are highlighted, and I can work through the file, finding all of these instances.

### Use cat with head 02:28-03:13

Another utility you can use to display the contents of a file is called the head command. Let's clear our screen to clean things up a little bit. Simply type head followed by the file name you want to view. Let's look at logfile once again. The head command displays only the first few lines of the file you specify. The thing here is that if you're using head to analyze a file, such as a log file, it displays limited information because, typically, the most recent information is added to the end of the log file. Everything you see at the beginning of a log file is old information and probably not very useful. I suppose it's possible that head could be useful if you're analyzing a configuration file that doesn't change, but again, I hardly ever use it.

### Use cat with tail 03:13-04:52

The tail utility displays the last lines in a file, which is important when dealing with log files. Most likely, when an error occurs, it will be in the most recent information. Let's use tail on the log file by typing tail logfile. The last few lines of the file are displayed.

A useful feature of tail is the -F option. If you run tail, as we did above, it reads the file and displays the last view lines. During troubleshooting, there may be times you want to monitor a log file to see what's being written to the log file. It may give clues as to what might be wrong with the system. If you use tail with the -F option, it will continue monitoring the file. As new entries are added to the log file, it displays on the screen.

We'll enter here, tail -F logfile. Notice that tail didn't exit; it's still monitoring the logfile file. What we're going to do now is open up a new terminal session. And now, I'm going to manually add lines to this file to simulate what would happen if we were monitoring a live log file on a Linux system. What we're working with down here is just a dummy file.

I'm going to type the cat command, and then I'll read the contents of myfile. Instead of displaying it on the screen, we'll redirect it to the logfile. Because we used two greater-than signs (>), it will write the contents of myfile to the end of the log file without overriding the existing contents. I hit Enter and notice when I did that, this new entry was added down here, to the end of the log file, and it was displayed by tail. You can stop tail from monitoring the file by pressing Ctrl+C, and it breaks out.

### Summary 04:52-05:13

That's it for this demonstration. In this lesson, we talked about how you can view the contents of files on a Linux system. We also talked about using the cat command, the cat command with more, the less command, and the head command. Finally, we looked at using the tail command.

## 2.9.4 Manage Files

### Manage Files 00:00-00:16

In this lesson we are going to explore how to manage files in a Linux file system. Specifically, creating, copying, moving, and deleting files, and getting information about files.

### Create Files with a Text Editor 00:16-00:55

There are two options to create a new file in the Linux file system. Using a text editor, such as vim or nano, and using the touch command.

To create a new file using nano, open a terminal and run nano, and the name of the file you want to create. For this demonstration, let's name the file myfile.

With nano running you can begin typing the required text, such as "This is my new file."

To write the changes to a file and exit the editor, I'll type Ctrl+X, and then type Y to confirm the save, and press Enter.

Now when I run the ls command, we see that the file is created.

### Create Files with touch 00:55-01:27

You may need to create a blank file for use with an installed program. For example, some applications write information to files that are staged. This type of file can be created using the touch command.

Run touch, followed by the name of the file that you want to create. In this case, let's call it myfile2.

By running the ls -l command, you see that the file was created, and it is 0 bytes in size because it's empty. Whereas the file we created with nano had a little bit of text in it, so it's 21 bytes in size.

### Copy Files 01:27-03:14

We can use shell commands to copy files to a different location using the cp or copy utility.

When you copy a file, the source file is going to be preserved and a new copy of that file is going to be created wherever you specify in the file system.

To use the copy command, first enter cp and then specify which file you want to copy. I'll specify that I want to copy the file named myfile.

Since we did not provide a path to the location of this file; we are using a relative path. The Linux shell assumes that I want to use the myfile file that is in the current working directory.

If you wanted to specify a file that resided somewhere else, you must specify the full path to that file.

Let's use an explicit path, for the destination. We type /tmp. The forward slash tells the command to start at the root of the system and then go into the directory named tmp. Since I'm not specifying a name, it will copy the file using its existing name. Press Enter, and the file is copied.

We will run ls /tmp and to see only files that start with the letter M, type /m\* , and press Enter. And you see that the file was copied.

When we run ls again in the local directory, you see myfile is still here.

Regardless of whether you are using explicit or relative paths, you can also rename a file during the copy process.

To do this, run the same command – cp myfile but now for the destination, I'll give the file a new name of copied-file and press Enter. Since we did not specify a path, this is a relative copy, so ls -l, will show the file is in my home directory.

### Move Files 03:14-04:23

There may be times you want to move the file to a new location in the file system. When you move a file, the source file is deleted, and a new copy is created in the location that you specify.

This is done using the mv or move command.

We run mv and the name of the file we want to move. We are moving the file named myfile2. Then specify the destination of where the file is to be moved. We enter the explicit path of /tmp. And now when we press Enter, the file is moved.

To verify that the move was successful, I'll run ls /tmp/m\*.

Just as with the copy command, you can also rename files as you move them.

For example, to move the myfile2 file back to my home directory, we type mv /tmp/myfile2, which is the explicit path to the source file and then type /home/zoey/moved-file as the explicit path and new name of the destination. When we press Enter, and run ls, we see that the file has been moved and renamed.

### Rename Files with mv 04:23-04:42

We can use the mv command to rename files without moving the file.

Let's use the mv command to rename the moved-file, back to its original name of myfile2 by running mv moved-file myfile2.

By running ls, we see that the file was renamed.

### Delete Files 04:42-06:02

We delete files from the shell prompt using the rm command. By default, the rm command is used to only delete files. Unless otherwise specified, rm will not remove or delete a directory, even if the directory is empty.

It is important to emphasize that by default, this command will not ask you to confirm the deletion of the file. Once you run the command, your files will be gone. Unlike Windows, your files won't be in the Trash.

Let's run touch deleteme to create a new file, and ls to see that the file was created.

To remove this file, we run rm deleteme and press Enter. No confirmation prompt was given, and when we run ls, we see the file is gone. When the Trash is opened, there are no files there, so the file cannot be recovered.

We can tell rm to prompt before deleting a file, by using the -i option.

Let's run touch promptme to create a new file, and ls to see that the file was created.

This time we delete the file by running rm -i promptme, and when I press Enter, I'm asked if I really want to remove this file, I'll press y and press Enter and the file is removed.

### Delete Directories 06:02-06:58

When I run rm Videos, we see that the command did not remove Videos since it is a directory.

Since I know that this directory is empty, I can delete it by running rm and then adding the option of --dir, followed by the directory, and when I run ls, we see the directory has been deleted.

Let's use that command again, on the Pictures directory. The command fails because it is not an empty directory.

To remove a directory that contains files, we use the -r option for recursive. This means that it will not only remove the directory and files you specify in the command, but it will also delete all subdirectories and files they may contain.

Run `rm -r Pictures`, and we see that the command ran successfully, and the directory and all its files were removed.

### Get Information About Files 06:58-08:26

One of the big differences between Windows and Linux is the method used to determine the type of file being used. In a Windows environment, when you see a file extension of .exe, you know that file is an executable file. Likewise, when you see a file extension of .txt, you know it's a text file.

Linux does not require a file to have a file extension. It can be difficult to know what type of file it is, just by its name.

In modern Linux systems, this is made easier since many distributions color code their files and directories. When I list the files in the /etc directory you see names in blue, which are directories. Names in black, which are text files, and names in a greenish blue color, which are symbolic links. If the colors were not there, or we did not know what the color represented, we can use a command named file to determine which type of file you are working with.

This is done by typing file and then the name of the file, for example, myfile, and pressing Enter.

We see that the myfile is an ASCII text file. When I run file /etc/vtrgb we see that that file is a symbolic link to another file.

You can determine the type of all the files in a directory by running file \*.

The results show that some of the files are ASCII text files, while others are directories.

### Summary 08:26-08:34

In this demonstration we talked about managing files from the shell prompt.

## 2.9.5 File Management Facts

Several Linux commands are used with files.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- File viewing commands
- File management commands

### File Viewing Commands

The following table describes Linux commands that can be used to view the content of files:

<table><thead><tr><th>Command</th>
<th>Function</th>
<th>Examples</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >cat</b></td>
<td >
Displays the contents of a file in the shell. This command can display multiple files at once.</td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >cat myfile</b> displays the contents of <b >myfile</b> .</li>
<li><b >cat myfile</b> <b >yourfile</b> displays the contents of <b >myfile</b> and <b >yourfile</b> together.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >less</b></td>
<td >
Displays the contents of a file, pausing one screen at a time.
<ul><li>Use the Spacebar to scroll to the next screen.</li>
<li>Use the Up arrow and Down arrow to scroll up and down.</li>
<li>Press q to exit.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >less bigfile</b> displays the contents of <b >bigfile</b> one screen at a time so it can be read.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >head</b></td>
<td >
Lists the first ten lines (the default) of a specified file. Use the <b >-n</b> option to specify a specific number of lines to display.</td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >head /home/user/myfile</b> lists the first ten lines of myfile.</li>
<li><b >head -n 20 /home/user/myfile</b> lists the first 20 lines of myfile.</li>
<li><b >head -n -35 /home/user/myfile</b> displays all lines in myfile, omitting the last 35 lines.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >tail</b></td>
<td >
Lists the last ten lines (the default) of a specified file.
<ul><li><b >-n</b> specifies a specific number of lines.</li>
<li><b >-f</b> monitors the file.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >tail /home/user/myfile</b> lists the last ten lines of myfile.</li>
<li><b >tail -n 20 /home/user/myfile</b> lists the last 20 lines of myfile.</li>
<li><b >tail -n -15 /home/user/myfile</b> displays all lines in myfile, omitting the first 15 lines.</li>
<li><b >tail -f /var/firewalld</b> displays the last ten lines of /var/firewalld and then dynamically displays new lines in the file as they are added.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### File Management Commands

The following table describes Linux commands that can be used to manage files.

<table><thead><tr><th>Command</th>
<th>Function</th>
<th>Examples</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b >touch</b></td>
<td>
If the file does not exist, <b >touch</b> creates a blank version of the file. If the file does exist, this command updates the file's modification and last accessed time.</td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >touch myfile</b> makes a blank file named myfile.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >file</b></td>
<td >
Shows the file type. The <b >file</b> command is useful because Linux does not require file extensions.
The <b >file</b> command uses file signatures in:
<ul><li><b >/usr/share/misc/magic</b></li>
<li><b >/usr/share/misc/magic.mgc</b></li>
<li><b >/etc/magic</b></li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >file myfile</b> shows whether <b >myfile</b> is a text, data, xml, or another type of file.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >stat</b></td>
<td >
Displays file or file system status. Useful for tracking changes to files or creation dates.
<ul><li><b >-f</b> shows file system status instead of file
information.</li>
<li><b >-L</b> follows links to the target file before displaying
information.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >stat /var/log/syslog</b> displays information about the /var/log/syslog file</li>
<li><b >stat -f /</b> displays information about the file system
mounted at /</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >cp</b></td>
<td >
Copies files. Copying leaves the source file intact.
<ul><li><b >-f</b> overwrites files that already exist in the
destination directory.</li>
<li><b >-i</b> prompts before overwriting a file in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >cp /temp/document_ab.txt ~/doc/document.txt</b> copies
document_ab.txt from the <b >/temp</b> directory to the <b >~/doc</b> directory and renames the file to document.txt.</li>
<li><b >cp /temp/*.txt ~/doc</b> copies all text files from the <b >/temp</b> directory to the <b >~/doc</b> directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >mv</b></td>
<td >
Moves or renames files (and directories). Moving files erases the source file and moves it to the destination.
<ul><li><b >-f</b> overwrites files that already exist in the
destination directory.</li>
<li><b >-i</b> prompts before overwriting a file in the destination directory.</li>
<li><b >-n</b> never overwrites files in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >mv /temp/document.txt ~/doc/document.txt</b> moves
document.txt from the <b >/temp</b> directory to the ~/doc directory.</li>
<li><b >mv /temp/*.txt ~/doc/*.txt</b> copies all text files from
the /temp directory to the ~/doc directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >rm</b></td>
<td >
Removes a file or directory.
<ul><li>Use <b >-i</b> to be prompted before deleting the file.</li>
<li>Use <b >--dir</b> to remove empty directories.</li>
<li>Use <b >-r</b> to remove directories and their contents recursively.</li>
<li>Use the <b >-f</b> option to not prompt you when there are
nonexistent files or arguments used with the command.</li></ul>
<div class="info" data-block="
The <b>rm</b> command deletes a file or
directory's inode, but it does not actually delete its data. To
permanently remove data, use the <b>shred</b> command."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
The <b>rm</b> command deletes a file or
directory's inode, but it does not actually delete its data. To
permanently remove data, use the <b>shred</b> command.</span></div></div></div></div></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >rm myfile</b> deletes a file in the current directory named
myfile.</li>
<li><b >rm -i myfile</b> prompts you before deleting the file in
the current directory named myfile.</li>
<li><b >rm /home/user/myfile</b> deletes <b >myfile</b> from the
/home/user directory regardless of the current directory.</li>
<li><b >rm --dir Sales</b> deletes the Sales directory found in the current directory only if the directory is empty.</li>
<li><b >rm -r Sales</b> deletes the Sales directory found in the
current directory, including all of its files and subdirectories
and files.</li>
<li><b >rm -f /home/user/temp/*</b> deletes all files in the temp
directory without prompts.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >shred</b></td>
<td >
Deletes the file and overwrites the file's data on the hard disk. The <b >shred</b> command is useful when deleting files that contain proprietary information or other sensitive data.
<ul><li><b >-n</b> specifies the times to overwrite. The default is 25 times.</li>
<li><b >-u</b> deletes the inode.</li>
<li><b >-v</b> displays the progress of the file deletion.</li>
<li><b >-z</b> overwrites the filename with zeros.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >shred -u -z companysecrets.txt</b> deletes
companysecrets.txt, overwrites the file with random information,
then leaves zeros in place of the file.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >chattr</b></td>
<td >
Modifies file attributes. A + or - is used to add or remove attributes, respectively. For example, to make a file immutable (cannot be modified), using the +i flag sets the immutable file attribute, and -i removes the immutable file attribute.
<ul><li><b >-R</b> recursively changes attributes of directories and their content.</li>
<li><b >-V</b> displays verbose output and the program version.</li>
<li><b >-f</b> suppresses error messages.</li>
<li><b >-p</b> sets the file's project number.</li>
<li><b >-v</b> sets the file's version/generation number.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><strong >sudo chattr +i annualreport.txt</strong>
sets the
immutable file attribute so the file cannot be modified.</li>
<li><b >sudo chattr +a feedback.txt</b> sets the append attribute
to allow users to append data to the file without changing or
modifying any existing data.</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td><b >lsattr</b></td>
<td >
Lists file attributes.
<ul><li><b >-R</b> recursively lists attributes of directories and
their content.</li>
<li><b >-V</b> displays the program version.</li>
<li><b >-a</b> lists all files in directories.</li>
<li><b >-d</b> lists directories like other files rather than listing their content.</li>
<li><b >-v</b> lists the file's version/generation number.</li></ul></td>
<td >
<ul><li><b >lsattr /etc/grub/grub.conf</b> lists the attributes of the grub.conf file.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
