---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 2.11 Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What are the benefits of the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)?</li>
<li>What should you be aware of when saving files in the /tmp directory?</li>
<li>Which directory does the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) specify for holding temporarily mounted file systems?</li>
<li>What's the difference between /root and the root of the file system ( <b class="fw-bold">/</b> )?</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms" width="977">
   <thead><tr><th >
     Term</th>
    <th >
     Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)</td>
<td>A subset of the Linux Standards Base (LSB) that 
constructs a consistent file system for Linux by
defining a standard set of directories, subdirectories, and files.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Real file system</td>
<td width="681">
The commonplace file system of an operating system. It is organized into directories and files.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Virtual file system</td>
<td>A pseudo file system that's dynamically created as it's accessed.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Relative path</td>
<td>The defining of a file location relative to the current directory.</td></tr>
<tr><td>Absolute path</td>
<td>The defining of a file location from the root of the file system.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
   <thead><tr><th >
     Exam</th>
    <th >
     Objective</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>2.2 Manage a file system
     <ul><li>Use the Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
<td>1.1 Summarize Linux fundamentals
<ul><li>Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)
<ul><li>/boot</li>
<li>/proc</li>
<li>/sys</li>
<li>/var</li>
<li>/usr</li>
<li>/lib</li>
<li>/dev</li>
<li>/etc</li>
<li>/opt</li>
<li>/bin</li>
<li>/sbin</li>
<li>/home</li>
<li>/media</li>
<li>/mnt</li>
<li>/root</li>
<li>/tmp</li></ul></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 2.11.1 Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS)

### Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) 00:00-00:22

In this lesson, we'll look at the Linux Filesystem Hierarchy Standard, or FHS, which provides a standard directory structure to ensure consistency between all the Linux distributions. Let's go through the various directories and where they are placed.

### The `/bin` Directory 00:22-00:38

First, at the root of the system, we have the bin directory. It contains executable files necessary to manage and run the Linux system, including your shell executables, such as for the bash shell. Also included are file system management utilities like cp and rm.

### The /boot Directory 00:38-00:47

Next, we have the /boot directory which contains the boot loader files required for system boot up.

### The /dev Directory 00:47-03:55

Another directory at the root of the file system is the dev directory. Unique in the Linux file system, the dev directory contains special files that represent the hardware devices installed in the system. For example, the first hard disk drive in the system is called sda. The second is called sdb, and each hard disk is represented by files in the /dev directory. Here's sda.

The partitions on each drive are identified by adding a number to the end of the disk name. For example, the first partition on the first hard drive is sda1. The second partition on the same disk is sda2 and so on. Remember, when you need access to a piece of hardware, you access it using a file in /dev. For example, if I write data to a file that resides on the first partition, in the first hard drive, then I would write the data to /dev/sda1. By writing the data to this device file, it's redirected and saved on the physical hard disk drive.

There are two types of device files stored in /dev. The first are character-oriented device files, which are used for devices that send or received data sequentially - one character at a time. Examples include a printer, mouse, or backup tape drive. Character-oriented devices usually don't support random access to the data they manage.

The second device file type is block-oriented, which is used for hardware devices that manage data in blocks - such as the hard disk drive or a flash drive. Block-oriented devices support random access to the data they manage. This means I could access any data point on the hard drive at any time.

There are many different types of hardware devices represented by the device files in /dev. Here we'll list some of the more common ones. An older system with a floppy disk would use /dev/fd0 to access the first floppy disk drive. The first optical drive would be accessed using /dev/sr0, a second one would be /dev/sr1. You can access or send data on a serial port through /dev/ttyS0. A second port would be ttyS1 and so on. To send data to a parallel port printer use /dev/lp0 for the first parallel port.

Remember that all physical hardware in the Linux system is addressed by applications and services through the files in /dev. For example, saving a file to a disk, sending a print job to a printer, or accessing a file on a DVD all go through a file in /dev.

The /dev directory is also used for virtual system resources. For example, the /dev/random device file is connected to a virtual random number generator and not any physical hardware.

### The /etc Directory 03:55-04:25

Now, the next directory to understand is the /etc directory. This contains the text-based configuration files used to configure the Linux system, and all the services, daemons, and applications running on the system. Because they're text files, you can customize your system's behavior by editing the files in the text editor.

Next, we have the /home directory, which contains subdirectories that serve as home directories for each user account on the system.

### The/media Directory 04:25-04:55

We also have the /media directory that's used by some Linux distributions to mount external devices, such as an optical drive or a connected USB drive. For example, if I were to insert an optical disk into the optical drive, I would need to mount it first in an existing directory, such as /media. Once the optical drive is mounted, I can use the CD command at the shell prompt to change into that directory and access the data on the optical device.

### The /mnt Directory 04:55-05:30

Now, some distributions use the /mnt directory instead of /media to mount external devices. Most distributions also use /mnt for temporarily mounting local and remote file systems. For example, if there's a server in the network with an NFS mount, I could mount it in the /mnt directory. Then, when I switch to /mnt, I'm accessing the data on the server in the shared folder somewhere else on the network. It's essentially like mapping a drive in Windows.

### The /opt Directory 05:30-05:40

Next is the /opt directory. Some applications put some of their files in the /opt directory during installation, but this doesn't happen often.

### The /proc Directory 05:40-07:14

We also have the /proc directory, which is unique from other directories because it doesn't actually exist. Instead, it's what is called a pseudo file system. This means the directory is dynamically created when it's accessed.

/proc directory plays a key roll in accessing information about the processes running on the system and system information. Notice that within /proc there are several directories identified with a number instead of a name. These numbers are process ID numbers, or PIDs. Every process running on the system has an assigned PID and a corresponding subdirectory in /proc that's named with the same PID. You can access information about a running process by viewing data within one of these directories. For example, if I want to view information about a process with the PID of 7610, I can go into the 7610 directory and view the running process's information.

You can also view information about hardware in your system in /proc. For example, if I were to view this cpuinfo file with the cat command, I could see the type of CPU that's installed in this system. I could also use the cat command to view the interrupts file to see which devices in the system are using which interrupts. I could use the cat command to view the meminfo file to see how memory is being used. Or if I want to see what modules are loaded onto the system, I could use the cat command to view the modules file.

### The /root Directory 07:14-07:31

Next is the /root directory which is the root user's home directory. The root user's directory is not in the same location as the standard user's home directories. The standard user's home directories are in /home and the root user's home directories are in /root.

### The /sbin Directory 07:31-07:46

You also have a directory named /sbin at the root of the file system. It contains important system administration utilities, like fdisk, ifconfig, init, makefs, shutdown, halt, and so on.

### The /srv Directory 07:46-08:04

Another directory at the root is /srv which contains subdirectories where services save their files. For example, if I installed a web server, then the web server files that are served to web clients on the browser are stored in /srv.

### The /tmp Directory 08:04-08:18

Next is the /tmp directory, which contains temporary files created by the system or by you. Be aware that the Linux kernel will clear out older temporary files automatically on a periodic basis.

### The /usr Directory 08:18-08:30

Next, we have the /usr directory that contains application files. Most application files used by the system are stored in a subdirectory within /usr.

### The /var Directory 08:30-08:41

And finally, we have the /var directory, which contains variable data – including system log files and mail spool files for each user account.

### Summary 08:41-09:02

That's it for this lesson. We went through many directories in the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard. Just remember that FHS defines the directories in the Linux file system and identifies what type of data should be saved in those directories.

## 2.11.2 Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) Facts

The Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS) defines a consistent file system for Linux systems by defining a standard set of directories, subdirectories, and files. FHS is a subset of the Linux Standards Base (LSB), which is an organization and set of guidelines for promoting a set of standards to increase Linux distribution compatibility.

This lesson covers FHS directories.

### FHS Directories

FHS defines the following directories and their contents:

<table><thead><tr><th>
Directory</th>
<th >
Description</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/</b></td>
<td>The / character represents the root directory of the Linux system. All other directories are located beneath the / (root directory) of the system.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/bin</b></td>
<td>The /bin directory contains binary commands that are available to all users.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/boot</b></td>
<td>The /boot directory contains the kernel and bootloader files.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/dev</b></td>
<td>The /dev directory contains device files that represent the hardware used by the system, such as a hard drive, mouse, and printer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/etc</b></td>
<td>The /etc directory contains configuration files specific to the system.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/home</b></td>
<td>The /home directory contains (by default) the user home directories.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/lib</b></td>
<td>The /lib directory contains shared program libraries and kernel modules.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/media</b></td>
<td>The /media directory is used to mount removable media, such as optical discs and USB
drives.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/mnt</b></td>
<td>The /mnt directory is used for temporarily mounting local and remote file systems.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/opt</b></td>
<td>The /opt directory contains additional programs on the system.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/proc</b></td>
<td>The /proc directory is a virtual directory 
(only exists in RAM) that contains information about the system state and processes.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/root</b></td>
<td>The /root directory is the root user's home directory. Do not confuse /root with the root of the file system (/).</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/sbin</b></td>
<td>The /sbin directory contains system binary commands.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/srv</b></td>
<td>The /srv directory contains files for services such as HTTP and FTP servers.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/sys</b></td>
<td>The /sys directory contains the <i >sysfs</i> virtual file system which displays information about devices and drivers.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/tmp</b></td>
<td>The /tmp directory contains temporary files created by programs during system use.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/usr</b></td>
<td>The /usr directory contains system commands and utilities.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">/var</b></td>
<td>The /var directory contains data files that change constantly, such as:
<ul><li>User mailboxes</li>
<li>Print queues</li>
<li>Log files</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
