---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 7.2 User Management
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Which directory contains configuration file templates that are copied into a new user's home directory?</li>
<li>Which type of default values create the user account when employing the <b >useradd</b> command to create a new user account?</li>
<li>How can you view all the default values in the /etc/default/useradd file?</li>
<li>What is the purpose of the /etc/login.defs file?</li>
<li>How would you create a user with the <b >useradd</b> command without employing the default values in the /etc/default/useradd file?</li>
<li>How do you create a password for a user at the shell prompt?</li>
<li>What does it mean if a user account is locked?</li>
<li>Which command deletes a user and their home directory at the same time?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Create a user account</li>
<li>Rename a user account</li>
<li>Delete a user</li>
<li>Change your password</li>
<li>Change a user's password</li>
<li>Lock and unlock user accounts</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th>Term</th>
<th>Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Shadow file</td>
<td>A system file where encrypted user passwords are stored.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td width="260">TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      4.1 Manage users and groups
      <ul>
        <li>Create and manage user accounts</li>
        <li>Manage user passwords</li>
        <li>Manage user access</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      2.2 Given a scenario, implement identity management
      <ul>
        <li>
          Account creation and deletion
          <br />
          <ul>
            <li>Utilities</li>
            <ul>
              <li>useradd</li>
              <li>userdel</li>
              <li>usermod</li>
            </ul>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>Default shell</li>
      </ul>
      <li>Configuration files</li>
      <ul>
        <li>/etc/passwd</li>
        <li>/etc/shadow</li>
        <li>/etc/skel</li>
        <li>.bash_profile</li>
        <li>.bashrc</li>
      </ul>
      <li>
        Account management
        <br />
        <ul>
          <li>passwd</li>
          <li>/etc/login.defs</li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 7.2.1 User and Password Management

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

User and Password Management 00:00-00:11
In this lesson, we'll review how to manage Linux user accounts and passwords. Let's jump in by adding a new user account to the system.

Add a New Account 00:11-02:33
We do this from the shell prompt with the useradd command. Here's the syntax. Run useradd, specify any options, and then enter the username for the new account. Every user account should be given a unique username. In this example, we're using useradd to create an account named kmorgan. Notice that we didn't include any options here. This means the kmorgan user account will receive the default parameters, and those are contained in several configuration files in the /etc directory.

The first file is /etc/default/useradd. Here we have an example of the default values in this file. It specifies that the default group for new users has a group ID number of 100. It also specifies a home directory will be created for the user in the /home directory. Additionally, the inactive account parameter is set to negative one. And the expired parameter is set to a null value, which means the account won't expire. And the default shell is set to /bin/bash. The skeleton directory is set to /etc/scale. This account also gets an automatically created mail spool directory. And since this is a text file, you can customize it with a text editor, too.

Next is the /etc/login.defs file, which contains values for the group and user ID parameters. It also contains default values for passwords in /etc/shadow. Notice that we specify the default values for the fields within this shadow file, such as the maximum and minimum days as well as the minimum password length. And down here, it identifies the user ID range for standard user accounts and system user accounts. In this example, the first standard user account that we create will have a number of 1,000. The next will be 1,001, and after that, 1,002—and so on up to 60,000.

For user accounts, the minimum user ID for a system user account is 201 with a maximum of 999. So if you see a UID over 999, you know it's a user account. If you see an account lower than that, remember that it's a system user account.

And down here are the parameters for our group ID values. Standard groups start at 1,000 and end at 60,000. System groups start at 201 and end at 999. This is also a text file that you can edit with a text editor.

skel Directory 02:33-03:20
Next, we have a configuration directory in /etc called the skel directory. The useradd command copies the files and directories within the /etc/skel directory to the new user's home directory during initialization. This allows you to provision a user account when it's created. For example, if you put a folder named Schedules, another named Projects, and a word processing file that contains a list of employees and their phone numbers in /etc/skel, they're automatically added to all new user accounts.

Typically, the skel directory contains Bash configuration files that are pre-configured, like .bashrc or .profile. Just remember that all the default values we just reviewed are applied if you don't include any options when you create a new account.

useradd Command Options 03:20-06:04
Let's go through some of those options. -c specifies the user's full name. It's designed for filling a comment field, but most people use it for full names instead. The -e option specifies the date when the account will be disabled. The -f option specifies the number of days after password expiration before the account is disabled. -g specifies the user's default group. A -G specifies any additional groups the user is a member of besides the default one. The -M option specifies that the user account is to be created without a home directory. And a lowercase -m allows you to manually specify the user's home directory.

There's also the -n option. By default, most modern Linux distributions create a new group whenever you create a new user account with the same name as the user account itself. You can use the -n option to turn this default off. This allows you to make one group—let's say it's named Users—as the default group instead of having a group for every individual user.

Now, the -p option specifies the user's encrypted password. A common mistake is to put this option with useradd and then input the password in cleartext. Instead, you should first run the openssl passwd -crypt command. This will prompt you to enter the user's password, but it'll output it in an encrypted form. You can then copy that encrypted password and paste it back in the useradd command with the -p option. The -r option creates a system user. And -s option allows specification for the default shell. And finally, -u allows specification for a custom user ID.

For example, let's say that I want to create a new user account for Erma Mcarthur on a Linux system. I want the username to be emcarthur, the full name to be Erma Mcarthur, a password of Linux123, and I want to specify that a home directory is created.

To do this, I start by creating an encrypted password by running the openssl passwd -crypt command and entering the password. The output is the new, encrypted password. Next, I use the useradd command with the -c option to specify the full name and -m to specify that the home directory be created. Then I use the -p option with the encrypted password in quotes. I specify the default shell, and finally, I specify the username.

We can see here in the password file that the record has been added. Notice some values were defined by default, such as the user and group ID. The full name and default shell were created with the parameters I specified.

passwd Utility 06:04-07:14
Now, in our example of creating the kmorgan account earlier, we didn't specify a password. So, it doesn't have one, and the account is locked. We can fix this with the passwd utility by entering passwd kmorgan and then providing a password when prompted. The system checks the password strength. If it's not strong, it'll give us a warning. Here, we ignored the warning and reentered the password, which was then assigned to the kmorgan account. Now kmorgan can log in.

There are several options for the passwd command. The -l option locks the user account, and the -u option unlocks the account. The -d option removes a user's password. Use the -n option to set the minimum number of days required before the user can change their password. Using -x sets the maximum days until the password must be changed. The -w option sets the number of days prior to password expiration when the user will be warned about a reset. And the -i option sets the number of days after password expiration that the user account will be disable if the password isn't changed.

Modify a User Account 07:14-08:21
Now, let's look at modifying existing user accounts with the usermod command. Its syntax is almost identical that used by useradd. Here, we entered usermod followed by the options we want and then followed by the username.

Let's look at the options here as well. The -c option sets the user's full name, -e sets the user account expiration date, and -f sets the number of days between password expiration and the account being disabled. The -g option sets the user's default group, and -D specifies additional groups the user will be placed in. -l can change the username, and -L locks the account. -m allows you to set the user's home directory, and -p is for setting the password. Remember, you should always use the openssl passwd -crypt command before using -p. Finally, the -s option sets the default shell, -u sets the user ID, and -U unlocks a user account that's been locked previously with the -L option.

Delete a User Account 08:21-08:53
The last topic for this lesson is deleting user accounts using the userdel command. To do this, enter userdel followed by the username for the account. For example, to delete the kmorgan account, enter userdel kmorgan. By default, userdel won't remove the user's home directory from the file system. This is good because there might be information in the home directory that belongs to the company and not the user. If you do want the user's home directory removed when deleting the account, include the -r option after userdel.

Summary 08:53-09:09
And that's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed how to manage Linux user accounts and passwords from the command line. We looked at how to add user accounts, modify them, delete them, and how to change passwords.

## 7.2.2 Managing Users

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Manage Users 00:00-00:13
In this demonstration we're going to discuss how to create users on the Linux system from the shell prompt. Let's begin by talking about how to create a new user.

The useradd Command 00:13-01:29
We create new users with the useradd command. Enter sudo useradd, followed by the name of the user account we wish to create, scarter.

If we only type useradd and the username, then a series of default values will be automatically applied to that user account to configure its environment. These default values are contained in the /etc/default/useradd file.

This file specifies the group ID that will be assigned, the location of the user's home directory, whether or not the account will be inactive, and other configurations.

We can also view these default values by entering useradd -D. We see that the same information is displayed. When we add options with the useradd command, those options will override the corresponding value located in the default file.

When we create a user account with the useradd command, it will be automatically assigned a user ID number. The /etc/login.defs file defines the user ID number that will be used. Here we see the UID_MIN and the UID_MAX parameters. The first user account that is created--the standard user account-- will have a UID of 1000 assigned. The next account will be 1001, then 1002, and so on.

Skeleton Directory 01:29-02:15
We saw that by default the /etc/skel directory will be used for the skeleton directory for the user account's home directory. When the user's home directory is created a series of files and sub-directories are going to be automatically added by the system. We can modify this.

Let's say we need a specific file or folder to appear in every user's home directory when created. We can edit the /etc/skel directory and add any needed files and folders to automatically add to new user accounts.

Currently it's blank. We could put files or folders in this directory, and they would be added only for users that are created after you put the files and folders in the /skel directory. Current users will not receive the files or folders.

View useradd man Page 02:15-03:25
Let's look at the man page for useradd so we can see what the different options are for creating new users. Any of the options override corresponding options located in the default file that we looked at earlier.

We can use the -c option to add a comment to the user account. We typically use -c to add a full name to a user account. We can use the -e option to add an automatic expiration date for the user account, after which the account will be disabled. We can use the -f option to specify the number of days after the password expires that the account will become permanently disabled.

The lowercase -m option specifies that we create a home directory for the user account. We can use the -r option to create a system user account. The -s option is used to specify the default login shell for the account.

We can use the -u option to manually specify a user ID number to be assigned to the new account. The next available user ID number will be automatically assigned if you don't use the -u option. A manually set user ID must be unique, meaning no other user account can be using that number.

Creating an account with useradd 03:25-04:06
Let's exit the man page and create a user account. We want to create a user account for the scarter user. We want to manually specify some of the parameters for this account.

We want to specify a full name for this account. Use the -c option. We also want to specify that a home directory be created for the user, so we use the -m option. Press Enter, and the user account has been created.

Let's look at the passwd file in the etc directory. We see that the scarter user account has been created with a user ID, primary group ID, full name of the user, a home directory, and a default shell that will be used by the user account.

Modify user account 04:06-04:59
There may be times when we need to modify an existing user account. This requires the usermod command. Let's take a look at the man page for usermod to see our options.

Most of the options for usermod are the same or similar to those used by useradd.

We use the -l option to change the username assigned to the account. For example, if a user were to get married or otherwise change their last name, we would use the -l option to change their username to match.

Let's use usermod to change the full name we've assigned to the scarter user account. Instead of going by Samantha Carter, she prefers to go by Sam Carter. We enter -c "Sam Carter" in quotations, and then we specify the name of the account we want to modify, which is scarter. Let's view the passwd file again. We see that the whole name assigned to the account has been modified.

Delete user account 04:59-05:56
Let's say that Sam was going to be a new employee but found a job elsewhere. We need to remove her account from the system.

This is done using the userdel command. When we run userdel followed by the username, it deletes the user account without deleting the home directory. If we need to remove the home directory, we include the -r option, which specifies that the home directory of the user account be removed when deleting users. We need to be very careful with this option. Many times, there could be information needed in the user's home directory or it could contain proprietary information within it. It is also a good idea to back up the information before deleting a user's home directory.

Let's run userdel scarter and specify -r to remove scarter's home directory. If we tail the /etc/passwd file, we see the scarter account is gone.

Summary 05:56-06:04
In this demonstration we explored managing user accounts from the shell.

## 7.2.3 Managing User Passwords

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Manage User Passwords 00:00-00:21
In this demonstration, we're going to practice managing user passwords. This is done using the passwd command on a Linux system.

If you run the passwd command as a standard user—notice that I'm currently logged in as just my jpatrick user account—I can manage only my user password.

Assign a Password to a User Account 00:21-01:08
Let's make a new user on the system using the useradd command. This account will be created for the Kimberly Sanders user account, /home directory, and the name of the account will be ksanders.

If we go in and look at our /etc/passwd file, you'll see that the ksanders account has been created along with all the default parameters. But if we look in our shadow file, you'll see that the ksanders user doesn't have a password defined. That's because when I ran the useradd command, I didn't use the -p option in the command-line to define a password for this user account.

Any time you see a standard user account with no password defined, that user account is locked, and you won't be able to log in to the system. We can manage the passwords for this user account using the passwd command.

View Password Status 01:08-02:31
Let's load the man page for the passwd command. If we scroll down, we can see that we can use the -S option with the passwd command to view the status of a particular user account.

Let's look at the status of the ksanders user. I'll enter passwd -S ksanders. Notice that it has an L in the output of the command. That L indicates that the account is locked.

The passwd command also displays additional parameters about the account, such as the date of the last password change, the minimum number of days required before a password can be changed, the maximum number of days before the password must be changed, and the number of days before password expiration when the user will be warned of the pending expiration, and finally, the number of days to wait after a password has been expired to disable the account.

To enable this account, we need to assign a password to the ksanders user. To do this, we enter passwd ksanders, and it tells us that we're changing the password for that user.

The ksanders user account now has a password assigned to it. Let's run the status command again against the account and notice that it says S now, which specifies that the password has been set.

If we view the shadow file now, we see that a hashed password has been added to the ksanders record in the shadow file. So now the user can log in to the system.

Change the Password to an Existing User Account 02:31-03:16
We just saw that you can use the passwd command to assign an initial password to a user account, but you can also use the passwd command to change the password of an existing user account. Notice that my jpatrick user already has a password assigned to it. If we need to change that password to something else, we enter passwd jpatrick.

On occasion, you may need to remove a password that's assigned currently to a user account. Let's say we need to remove the password from the ksanders user account we just created.

To do that, we enter passwd -d ksanders, which removes the account's password. Let's go ahead and reassign a password to the ksanders account and bring up the man page again for the passwd account.

Lock/Unlock User Accounts 03:16-04:21
Notice that there's also the option to lock and unlock a user account. Locking is done with the -l (lowercase L) parameter. Unlocking is done with the -u parameter.

Currently, we have a password assigned to the ksanders account. If we look at the status, we can see that the password is set. Remember, if we remove the password altogether with -d, it does lock the account, but if we wanted to, we could still leave the password set and just lock the account.

Maybe ksanders is going on an extended vacation—she'll be away from work for a couple of weeks—and we don't want anyone to be able to use her account while she's gone to get into the system. To keep this from happening, we can just lock that user's account. When the user returns, we'll unlock it, and she'll still be able to use the same password she used before she left on vacation.

To do this, we type passwd -l ksanders. A password has been assigned, but the account is currently locked. When the user returns from vacation, we can change the -l to a -u and unlock the account.

Summary 04:21-04:56
That's it for this demonstration. In this lesson, we talked about how to manage user accounts with the passwd command. We first used the passwd command to initially assign a password to a user account. We then used the passwd command to change the password assigned to an existing user account. We used the passwd command to view the password status of a user account. Finally, we ended this demonstration by talking about using the passwd command to lock and unlock a user account.

## 7.2.4 User Management Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Manage users and passwords</li>
<li>User account management files</li>
<li>Troubleshoot user access</li></ul>

### Manage Users and Passwords

Although it is possible to manage user accounts by manually editing the /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow files, if not done properly, doing so can disable your system. Knowing this, the best practice is to manage user accounts with the graphic user interface (GUI) tools or by using commands from the shell prompt as follows:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td><b>useradd</b></td>
    <td>
      Creates a user account.
      <br />
      <br />
      The following options override the settings found in
      /etc/default/useradd:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-c</b> adds text for the account in the
          <i>Description</i> field of /etc/passwd. This option is
          commonly used to specify the user's full name.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-d</b> assigns an absolute pathname to a custom home
          directory location.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-D</b> displays the default values specified in the
          /etc/default/useradd file.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-e</b> specifies the date on which the user account will be
          disabled.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-f</b> specifies the number of days after a password
          expires until the account is permanently disabled.
        </li>
        <li><b>-g</b> defines the primary group membership.</li>
        <li><b>-G</b> defines the secondary group membership.</li>
        <li><b>-M</b> does not create the user's home directory.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-m</b> creates the user's home directory (if it does not
          exist).
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-n, N</b>
          <span lang="EN">do not create a group with the same name as the user</span>
          (Red Hat and Fedora, respectively).
        </li>
        <li><b>-p</b> defines the encrypted password.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-r</b> specifies that the user account is a system user.
        </li>
        <li><b>-s</b> defines the default shell.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-u</b> assigns the user a custom UID. This is useful when
          assigning ownership of files and directories to a different
          user.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>useradd pmaxwell</b> creates the pmaxwell user account
      <b>.<br />useradd -c "Paul Morril" pmorril</b>
      creates the pmorril account with a comment
      <b>.<br />useradd -d /tmpusr/sales1 sales1</b>
      creates the sales1 user account with the home directory located at
      /tmpusr/sales1. <br />
      <b>useradd -u 789 dphilips</b> creates the dphilips account with
      user ID 789.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>passwd</b></td>
    <td>
      Assigns or changes a password for a user.
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>passwd</b> (without a username or options) changes the
          current user's password.
        </li>
        <li>
          Users can change their own passwords. The root user can
          execute all other <b>passwd</b> commands.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>Be aware of the following options:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-S</b>
          <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> username</i></b> displays the
          status of the user account.
          <ul>
            <li>LK indicates that the user account is locked.</li>
            <li>PS indicates that the user account has a password.</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-l</b> disables (locks) an account. This command inserts a
          !! before the password in the /etc/shadow file, effectively
          disabling the account.
        </li>
        <li><b>-u</b> enables (unlocks) an account.</li>
        <li><b>-d</b> removes the password from an account.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-n</b> sets the minimum number of days that a password
          exists before it can be changed.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-x</b> <i>s</i> ets the number of days before a user must
          change the password (password expiration time).
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-w</b> sets the number of days the user is warned before
          the password expires.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-i</b> sets the number of days following the password
          expiration that the account will be disabled.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>passwd jsmith</b> changes the password for the jsmith account.
      <br />
      <b>passwd -d</b> removes the password from an account. <br />
      <b>passwd -d jsmith</b> removes the password from the jsmith
      account. <br />
      <b>passwd -x 40 jsmith</b> requires jsmith to change their
      password every 40 days. <br />
      <b>passwd -n 10 jsmith</b> means that jsmith cannot change his or
      her password for 10 days following the most recent change.
      <b><br />passwd -w 2 jsmith</b>
      means that jsmith will be warned 2 days before his or her password
      expires. <br />
      <b>passwd -i 7 jsmith</b> disables the jsmith account after 7 days
      if the password is not changed. <br />
      <b>passwd -l jsmith</b> locks the jsmith account. <br />
      <b>passwd -u jsmith</b> unlocks the jsmith account.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>usermod</b></td>
    <td>
      Modifies an existing user account.
      <h2>usermod</h2>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-a</b> appends the user to the supplementary groups
          specified with the <b>-G</b> option.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-c</b> changes the description for the account. This is
          usually used to modify the user's full name.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-d</b> <b class="c3 fw-bold"> home_dir</b> assigns the user
          a new home directory. If <b>-d</b> is used with the
          <b>-m</b> option, the contents of the user's current home
          directory will be moved to the new home directory.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-e <i>date</i></b> specifies the date when the account will
          be disabled.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-f</b> specifies the number of days after a password
          expires until the account is permanently disabled.
        </li>
        <li><b>-g</b> specifies the primary group membership.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-G</b> specifies the secondary group membership. This
          option is usually used in conjunction with the
          <b>-a</b> option.
          <div>
            <div class="to-info-box">
              <div class="to-info-box-body">
                <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
                  <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>                          
                <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
                  <span>
                    If you don't use the <b>-a</b> option,
                    <b>-G</b> will overwrite all existing supplementary
                    group memberships.</span>
                </div>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-l</b> renames a user account. When renaming the account:
          <ul>
            <li>Use <b>-d</b> to rename the home directory.</li>
            <li>
              Use <b>-m</b> to copy all files from the existing home
              directory to the new home directory.
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-L</b> locks the user account. This command inserts a !
          before the password in the /etc/shadow file, effectively
          disabling the account.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-m</b> moves the contents of the user's home directory to
          the new location specified by the <b>-d</b> option.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-p</b>
          <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> password</i></b> assigns the
          specified encrypted password to the account.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-s</b> <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> shell</i></b> sets
          the user's default login shell.
        </li>
        <li>
          - <b>u</b> <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> UID</i></b> assigns
          a new user ID number.
        </li>
        <li><b>-U</b> unlocks the user account.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>usermod -c "Paul Morril" pmorril</b> changes the
      <i>Comment</i> field for the pmorril user.
      <br />
      <b>usermod -l esmith -d /home/esmith -m ejones</b> renames the
      ejones account esmith, renames the home directory, and moves the
      old home directory contents to the new location. <br />
      <b>usermod -s /bin/tsch esmith</b> points the shell for esmith to
      /bin/tsch. <br />
      <b>usermod -U</b> <b>esmith</b> unlocks the esmith account.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>userdel</b></td>
    <td>
      Removes the user from the system.
      <p>Be aware of the following options:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>userdel <i>username</i></b> (without options) removes the
          user account.
        </li>
        <li><b>-r</b> removes the user's home directory.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-f</b> forces the removal of the user account even when the
          user is logged into the system.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>userdel pmaxwell</b> deletes the pmaxwell account while leaving
      the home directory on the hard drive. <br />
      <b>userdel -r pmorril</b> removes both the account and the home
      directory.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### User Account Management Files

Be aware of the following configuration files when managing user accounts:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>File</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>/etc/default/useradd</td>
    <td>
      The /etc/default/useradd file contains default values for the
      <b>useradd</b> utility when creating a user account, including:
      <ul>
        <li>Group ID</li>
        <li>Home directory</li>
        <li>Account expiration</li>
        <li>Default shell</li>
        <li>Secondary group membership</li>
        <li>Skeleton directory</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>/etc/login.defs</td>
    <td>
      The /etc/login.defs file defines:
      <ul>
        <li>Values for defining allowed group and user ID numbers.</li>
        <li>
          Protocols to be used for password encryption in the shadow
          file.
        </li>
        <li>Password aging values for user accounts.</li>
        <li>The path to the default mailbox directory.</li>
        <li>Whether a home directory should be created by default.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>/etc/skel</td>
    <td>
      The /etc/skel directory contains a set of configuration file
      templates that are copied into a new user's home directory when it
      is created, including the following files:
      <ul>
        <li>.bashrc</li>
        <li>.bash_logout</li>
        <li>.bash_profile</li>
        <li>.kshrc</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>/etc/passwd</b></td>
    <td>
      The /etc/passwd file contains user account information. The file
      includes one line for each user on the system. Viewing this file
      lets you verify a user account and specific information about that
      account.
      <h2>cat /etc/passwd</h2>
      <ol>
        <li>Username – the name used to log on to a system.</li>
        <li>
          Password – when an X is shown, the password is encrypted.
        </li>
        <li>
          User ID (UID) – A unique number identifying the user. UID 0 is
          for the root user. 1-99 are reserved for predefined accounts.
          100-999 are for system accounts and groups.
        </li>
        <li>Group ID (GID) – the primary group ID.</li>
        <li>
          User ID Info (GECOS) – used to hold extra account information,
          such as the full name and phone numbers.
        </li>
        <li>
          Home directory – the path to the user's home directory. When a
          user logs on, they're taken to this directory by default.
        </li>
        <li>
          Command/shell – the path to the command or shell being used.
        </li>
      </ol>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Troubleshoot User Access

At times, a user may have difficulties logging in to a system. When this happens, the following may be helpful:

Local Access

<ul><li>Verify that the username and password being entered are correct. When doing this, ensure that the proper capitalization for both the name and password are being used, since both are case-sensitive.</li>
<li>From a shell prompt (terminal), verify that the user's account has not been locked and that a password has been assigned by typing: <b >sudo grep</b> <b ><i >username</i></b> <b >/etc/shadow
<br>
<br></b> Example: <b >sudo grep mary /etc/shadow
<br></b> Result: <b >mary: ! ! $6$OLrJmRgu$4hiY8j ehfAAZ1m3v4T4/OWkJ j
IJ6XHYaRErwrhGnY5/eXH2ba6Xj rL11/ : 17940 : O : : 7 : : :
<br></b> <br>
The account is locked if there are two exclamation marks (!!) after the username. If this is the case, and you know that the account should not be locked, use this command to unlock the account: <b >passwd -u</b> <i ><b >username</b> <br>
<br></i> If there are two exclamation marks, but no encrypted password, you'll need to assign a password (see the <b >passwd</b> command above). <i ><br></i></li>
<li>In some cases, the graphical user interface (GUI) may have issues (such as a broken graphics driver) preventing a user from logging in. In this case, open a tty session and test a no-GUI login:
<ul><li>To access a tty login, press <b >Ctrl</b> + <b >Alt</b> + <b >F <i >#</i></b> (where <b >#</b> is some number, typically 2-9).</li>
<li>From the tty prompt, try logging in using the user's account and password. If the login is unsuccessful, take the proper steps to troubleshoot the GUI.</li></ul></li></ul>

Remote Access

### ssh

<ul>
<li>
  Verify that the hostname is properly spelled or (if you're using an IP
  address) that the IP address is correct.
</li>
<li>
  Verify that you can resolve the hostname or IP address from your
  client machine using the <b>ping</b> command. If the
  <b>ping</b> command fails, your issue is probably a network issue and
  not SSH. Example: <b>ping mywks</b> or
  <b>ping 192.168.1.25</b>
</li>
<li>
  Verify that your network supports connectivity over the ssh port being
  used. For example, the default port of 22, may be blocked.
</li>
<li>
  Verify that a firewall is not blocking your connection or the desired
  port.
</li>
<li>
  Verify that the SSH daemon is enabled and running (and bound to the
  correct port).
  <ul>
    <li>
      To see if the daemon is running, enter:
      <b>sudo systemctl status sshd.service</b> <br />
      Note that the name of your daemon may be different.
      <br />
      The output will show you if the daemon is running and, if so, on
      which port it is listening.
    </li>
    <li>
      To see if the daemon exist, run:
      <b>sudo systemctl list-unit-files | grep ssh <br /></b>
      Look for the SSH daemon, such as sshd.service. Verify that the
      daemon is enabled.
      <br />
      If needed, enable the daemon and start the daemon as follows:
      <br />
      <b>systemctl enable <i>daemon_name <br /></i> systemctl start<i>daemon_name</i></b>
    </li>
    <li>
      If the port is incorrect, make the applicable changes in the
      /etc/ssh/sshd.config file.
    </li>
  </ul>
</li>
</ul>
