---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 7.3 Group Management
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Which <b class="fw-bold">usermod</b> option changes the secondary group membership?</li>
<li>Which command removes all secondary group memberships for specific user accounts?</li>
<li>How can you display the primary and secondary group membership for a single user?</li>
<li>Which <b class="fw-bold">groupmod</b> option changes the group's name?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Rename and create groups</li>
<li>Add users to a group</li>
<li>Add a user to additional groups</li>
<li>Delete groups and users</li>
<li>Remove a user from a group</li>
<li>Remove a user from all groups</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Term</th>
  <th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Group</td>
  <td>
    A collection of users that can be used to help manage users, such
    as assigning and revoking permissions to files and directories.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td width="260">TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      4.1 Manage users and groups
      <ul>
        <li>Create and manage groups</li>
        <li>Manage user passwords</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      2.2 Given a scenario, implement identity management
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>Account creation and deletion</li>
        <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
          <ul>
            <li>Utilities</li>
            <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
              <ul>
                <li>groupadd</li>
                <li>groupdel</li>
                <li>groupmod</li>
                <li>usermod</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 7.3.1 Group Management

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Group Management 00:00-00:16
In this lesson, we're going to discuss how you can manage Linux groups from the shell prompt.

We're going to begin by looking at how you create new groups on the Linux system. You do this using the groupadd command.

Adding Groups with groupadd 00:16-00:56
As its name implies, groupadd is used to add groups to your Linux system. We enter groupadd and then specify any options we want to use, followed by the name of the group we want to create.

In this case, we're going to add a group named RandD.

When I do, a group is added to the /etc/group file. And because I didn't use any options in this command, the default parameters specified in the /etc/login.defs file are automatically applied.

An example of that file is shown here. For example, you can see the group ID numbers that'll be used by default for a standard user group that we create with the groupadd command.

groupadd Options 00:56-01:49
Just as when you're creating new users with useradd, when you create new groups with groupadd, you can override the defaults in the login.defs file—customizing the way the group is created—using options at the command line. For example, if we use the -g option, we can manually specify a group ID number for the group instead of using the next available one. If we want to create a password for the group, we can use the -p option. And, just as with the useradd command, you have to use the openSSL command, openSSL passwd -crypt, to first encrypt the password we want to use and then paste it into the command line in quotations with the -p option. By default, if we use groupadd, it's going to create a standard user group. If we need to create a system group, we use the -r option to specify that we're creating a system group.

Modify Groups with usermod 01:49-02:17
With this in mind, let's now look at modifying existing Linux groups. In order to modify a group, including adding users to the group membership, you can use one of two different utilities.

The most common utility that we're going to use to add users to a group is not a group command but the user command called usermod.

This can trip up a lot of new Linux system administrators because we're essentially using a user management utility to modify a group.

usermod Optoins 02:17-02:33
To do this, you have two very important options to become familiar with the usermod command. The first one is -g which sets the user's default group. Also, -G, which specifies additional groups that the user is to be a member of.

usermod Example 02:33-02:58
In this example, we're using the -g option to set the default group for the kmorgan user to a group named Users. As you can see from the output of the tail command, when it's looking at the password file, the default group ID number for the kmorgan user is now set to 100. If we look at the group file right here and look for the user's record, we see that the GID of users is, indeed, 100.

usermod -G 02:58-03:38
You have to be very careful with -G because, by default, whatever group you specify—say I specify -G RandD with the usermod command—it would erase all of the existing additional group memberships for that user account and replace them with just this one group membership. You need to find out what user accounts the user is already a member of and include them right here, in the command line, so that the user retains existing group memberships and just has this added to the list rather than replacing the list. The usermod command is fairly well supported across most Linux distributions.

Modify Groups with groupmod 03:38-04:00
There's a second command that you can use to modify groups called groupmod. It's available on some Linux distributions and not on others. groupmod operates from a different perspective than usermod. With usermod, we edit individual users and make them members of groups. groupmod edits the group itself and adds user accounts to it as members.

groupmod Options 04:00-04:49
The syntax is shown here. We enter groupmod followed by whatever options we want to use and then the name of the group. There are several different options we can use with this command. -g changes the group's ID number. -p changes the group's password. Again, remember, we have to use the openSSL passwd -crypt command to encrypt the password first.

Here's the one we need to focus on: -A adds a user account to the group. For example, down here, we enter groupmod -A. Then we specify the name of the user account, emcarthur. And then the name of the group to which we want to add that user account, RandD. We can do the opposite with -R, which simply removes a user account from membership in the group.

Deleting Groups with groupdel 04:49-05:10
Finally, let's look at deleting groups. If for some reason, you need to delete an existing group from your system, you can do so by using the groupdel command at the shell prompt. The syntax is shown here, groupdel, followed by the name of the group you want to get rid of. For example, if we wanted to remove the RandD group, we'd enter groupdel RandD.

Summary 05:10-05:28
In this lesson, we discussed the process for managing Linux groups. We first looked at adding groups. We talked about modifying groups, including modifying group membership. And then, we ended this lesson by talking about how to delete a group from the system.

## 7.3.2 Managing Groups

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Manage Groups 00:00-00:11
In this demonstration, we're going to explore how to manage groups on a Linux system. We'll go over how to add, modify, and remove them.

Add Groups 00:11-01:42
Let's start by adding a new group to the system named Development. We do this with the groupadd command. We enter sudo groupadd, a space, and the name of the group that we want to add. But before we actually add it, you should know that there are several default parameters that are automatically assigned to groups when they're created. And these defaults are stored in the /etc/login.defs file.

First is the group ID number. The numbers start at 1000 on this system, so the first group will have an ID of 1000. The next will be 1001, then 1002, and so on. If we were to create a system group, the group ID numbering would start at 101. With that in mind, let's create a new group here. Let's look at the man page for groupadd so we can see what the options are.

One option is -g, which allows you to override the default group ID number assignment and manually specify a custom number. Now, these group ID numbers do have to be unique, so keep that in mind. One useful option is -r, which allows you to create a system group. For our purposes, we're looking to create a standard user group. Let's do sudo groupadd and then specify the group name—again, that's Development.

If we use the tail command now to view the /etc/group file—that's where our group accounts are stored—we see that we do, in fact, have a new group defined. Its name is Development, just like it should be. The x tells us that it'll use the gshadow password file—that's if we assign a password. Here's the group ID number, but there are no group members yet. We've created a group, but it's empty.

Add Users to a Group 01:42-02:52
In order to add members to a group, we have to modify it, but the actual command will vary based on the distribution you're using. A few of them use the groupmod command. On other distributions, like Ubuntu here, it's usermod. Okay, we're going to modify a particular user and tell it that it's now a member of this group. Let's open the man page for usermod.

The -g option is used to modify the user's primary group, which is the default. Every user account on a Linux system has one primary group associated with it. That's its initial login group. It's good to know that a Linux user can be a member of many different groups. These are known as supplementary groups. If we want to add a user to a supplementary group, we use the -G option instead.

Something interesting happens if a user is a member of three different groups already and we use -G with the usermod command to specify an additional group. The existing group memberships are removed and replaced with the one group membership that was specified. To add an additional group membership and not replace any existing memberships, use the -G option along with -a. The -a option appends the new group to the list of group memberships instead of replacing them.

Edit a Group 02:52-03:13
Let's go ahead and add Development as a supplementary group to the jmace user account. Type sudo usermod -aG followed by Development. Then there's the name of the user account that we're adding the membership to—remember, that's jmace. If we tail the group file again, we see that the jmace user account is now a member of the Development group.

Remove a Group 03:13-03:34
Let's end things by discussing how we can remove a group from the system. We do this with the groupdel command. Enter groupdel and the name of the group we want to remove. Let's suppose we've decided that we don't need the Development group anymore. We enter sudo groupdel Development and press Enter. If we tail the group file one more time, we see that the Development group is gone now.

Summary 03:34-03:44
That's all for now. In this demo, we learned how to manage Linux groups from the command line.

## 7.3.3 Group Management Facts

This lesson covers group management.

### Group Management

Groups can be very helpful when managing users. For example, security permissions can be added to a group, which grants these permissions to everyone in the group. If permissions need to be changed, they can be changed in the group instead of needing to change them for each individual user.

The table below lists the most common commands and options for managing group accounts and membership.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Function</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td><b>groupadd</b></td>
    <td>
      Creates a new group. The options below override the settings found
      in /etc/login.defs:
      <ul>
        <li><b>-g</b> defines the group ID (GID).</li>
        <li><b>-p</b> defines the group password.</li>
        <li><b>-r</b> creates a system group.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td><b>groupadd sales</b> creates the sales group.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>groupmod</b></td>
    <td>
      Modifies a group definition. Be aware of the following options:
      <ul>
        <li><b>-n</b> changes the name of a group.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-A</b> adds specified users from the group (not available
          on all distributions).
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-R</b> removes specified users from the group (not
          available on all distributions).
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>groupmod -n sales2 sales</b> renames the sales group to sales2.
      <br />
      <b>groupmod -R rsem sales</b> removes the rsem account from the
      sales group.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>groupdel</b></td>
    <td>Deletes a group.</td>
    <td><b>groupdel mktg</b> deletes the mktg group.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>gpasswd</b></td>
    <td>
      Changes a group password. Be aware of the following options:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b><i> groupname</i></b>
          prompts for a new password.
        </li>
        <li><b>-r</b> removes a group password.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td><b>gpasswd sales</b> prompts for a new group password.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>newgrp</b></td>
    <td>
      Changes your current or real group ID to the group ID specified in
      the command. As long as the user knows the group password, this
      lets them switch to a different group without being added to it.
      Typing <b>exit</b> removes the user from the group.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>newgrp sales</b> logs the user in to the group named sales
      after being prompted for the sales group password.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>usermod</b></td>
    <td>
      Modifies group membership for the user account. Be aware of the
      following options:
      <ul>
        <li><b>-g</b> assigns a user to a primary group.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-G</b> assigns a user to a secondary group (or groups).
          Follow the command with a comma-separated list of groups. If
          the user already belongs to any secondary groups, the user
          will be removed from those groups if the groups are not in the
          list.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-aG</b> assigns a user to a secondary group (or groups) by
          appending them to any groups the user already belongs to.
          Follow the command with a comma-separated list of groups.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-G ""</b> removes the user from all secondary group
          memberships. Do not include a space between the quotes.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>usermod -g pmaxwell pmaxwell</b> assigns primary group
      membership for pmaxwell to the pmaxwell group.
      <b><br />usermod -G sales,mktg pmorril</b>
      removes all existing secondary group assignments for pmorril and
      makes the user account a member of the sales and mktg groups.
      <br />
      <b>usermod -aG acct,prod pmorril</b> keeps existing secondary
      group assignments for pmorril intact and makes the user account a
      member of the acct and prod groups. <br />
      <b>usermod -G "" pmaxwell</b> removes the pmaxwell from all
      groups.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>groups</b></td>
    <td>
      Displays the primary and secondary group membership for the
      specified user account.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>groups pmaxwell</b> displays group membership for the pmaxwell
      account.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<div>
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
  <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>          
<div class="to-info-box-body-content">
  <span>
    The command options listed here are not applicable to every Linux
    distribution. Consult the man pages for the options that are
    supported by the Linux distribution you are using.</span>
</div>
</div>
