---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 7.4 Troubleshoot User Issues
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What are the most common user login issues?</li>
<li>What is a common cause of not being able to access a file once you're logged in?</li>
<li>How might quotas cause an issue with insufficient access?</li></ul>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      2.1 Summarize the purpose and use of security best practices in a
      Linux environment
      <ul>
        <li>
          Authentication
          <ul>
            <li>Multi-factor authentication (MFA)</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>2.5 Given a scenario, apply the appropriate access controls</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Command line utilities
          <ul>
            <li>chmod</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        4.4 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot user access and
        file permissions
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>User login issues</li>
        <li>
          User file access issues
          <ul>
            <li>Group</li>
            <li>Permission</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>Password issues</li>
        <li>Privilege elevation</li>
        <li>Quota issues</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 7.4.1 Common User Account Problems

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Common User Account Problems 00:00-00:42
In troubleshooting, there are several ways to break things, and usually, a few ways to fix them. We'll examine some of the common problems you may encounter with user accounts. We'll look at account lockouts, specifically wrong or missing account information. Also, we'll look at what to look for and how to fix these problems.

In this lesson, we're going to examine some of the more common issues users face with their account. We'll look at login issues first, since entry to the system is required. Next, we'll look at how users gain access to files. Issues with passwords is a common problem. Then, we'll look at privilege elevation. Lastly, we'll look at how quota setting effect user's access.

User Login Issues 00:42-01:15
Probably the most common problems users face involve logging into the system. Users often forget their password or use the wrong password and need to have it reset. Sometimes, users try logging in and do not realize caps lock is on. Since passwords are case-sensitive, they are prevented from login since the password they entered is wrong. There are also other issues that may prevent a user from logging in successfully. The user's account may have expired or been locked. Time-of-day restrictions may have been set and the user is trying to log in during non-working hours.

User File Access Issues 01:15-02:21
File permissions is considered a security system. Permissions and file rights are assigned to users, groups, and are controlled with extended attributes and access control lists or ACLs. The user receives their rights from the combination of these permissions. In general, the effective rights represent a combination of the permissions, attributes, and policies. Also, in general, the most restrictive rights become effective when one permission source provides permissions and another takes them away. One example could be the user is granted permissions from the Group, but the user permissions denies the same permissions. The more restrictive permissions become the effective rights.

Troubleshooting file access issues is not always trivial. It can take some time and often requires another set of eyes to figure out why a user's effective rights are what they are and where they come from. They can even be contradictory. Often, the system administrator needs to look through all of the possible permissions sources and map them out on paper. When the administrator visually sees the permissions source, he can often determine how to fix the effective rights.

Password Issues 02:21-04:00
Undoubtedly, password issues are the most prevalent in an IT organization. Depending on how often password must be changed and the complexity requirements, users forget their passwords more often and have to call the helpdesk to get their password reset. Depending on the size of the organization, they may have support staff specifically trained to assist users with password issues. Things are changing, however, to make password management easier.

In the early days, users were forced to change passwords every so often. Today, more organizations are using multi-factor authentication. This provides alternatives to the simple username/password combination and provides additional security to prevent unauthorized access to a system. Multi-factor authentication employs more than one combination of factors to authenticate a user.

First is something you know. This information includes: passwords, pins, sequences – anything that you as an individual person knows.

Second is something you have. This includes smartcards that contain information the identifies the user or tokens that display a numeric sequence unique for the user. This changes every 60 seconds or so.

Third is something you are. These refer to biometrics or unique attributes such as a fingerprint or iris scan.

Using these criterion reduces helpdesk calls since users no longer have to remember passwords. Obviously, they are not going to lose their fingerprint. However, they may lose or wear out their smartcard or their token may exhaust its battery. These alternatives not only reduce helpdesk calls, they increase security since a hacker can't guess a pin unless they have the smartcard.

Privilege Elevation 04:00-05:01
Hackers often use Privilege Elevation to gain access to a system and try to impersonate a privileged user. In essence, this means I log in as a normal user, but elevate my privileges to that of a system or root user. This is part of normal Linux operations but can be exploited if not managed appropriately. One example is changing your password. When a user changes his or her password, protected files are modified. In order for this to work, the normal user's privileges must be elevated to the root user's privileges while the program is running. Hackers can take advantage of this to modify and elevate their own user's privileges, compromising the Linux system.

There are a few ways to help mitigate this, such as using digital signatures and encryption. However, these factors may cause additional issues for the users, as well as the system administrator.

When assigning permissions to users, it's important to implement the rule of least privilege. Assign only the permissions required for the user to do his/her job.

Quota Issues 05:01-07:39
Setting up user and group quotas help administrators control how storage is used. Users can store data in shared directories or home directories without limits unless quotas are configured on a Linux volume. They can be easy to configure, but difficult to manage.

Quotas are configured per disk volume and can be enabled or disabled. To enable user quotas on a disk volume, you must modify how the volume is mounted in the /etc/fstab file. First, find the line that mounts the volume you wish to add quotas on, then add the modifier to enable user quotas. After saving the file, reload the mounted disk using the remount volume command from the command-line. This will enable and activate user quotas on the root volume. Lastly, you can set quotas by using the setquota command. The setquota command sets volume storage limits for the specific user or group and has several options. Most often, the administrator will set soft and hard limits. The soft limit defines the space a user can use during normal operations. If more than the soft limit is used, but less than the hard limit, the user receives a warning and a 7-day grade period begins. The hard limit defines the maximum amount of space available to a user. Should the grace period expire before the used space goes below the soft limit, it will become the hard limit. The user will not be able to save files or store additional data until the used space is below the soft limit. Here, the user gfulton has a soft limit of 1000MB and a hard limit of 1300MB. The zeros represent inode limits – a setting of 0 disables the quota.

There are several commands that can help diagnose issues quotas may cause. The quota command displays quota status. The repquota command provides status reports on user quota, group quotas, and/or project quotas. You can modify the output to provide information in the format you need to see it. Common modifiers are -a to report on all volumes and -s to output in a human readable format. The setquota command is useful to initially set user quotas, but it has other uses such as modify the grace time, -t. The times are entered in seconds. A 24 hour day is 86,400 seconds. So, the standard 7-day grace period is 604,800 seconds.

Should the helpdesk begin receiving calls from users who can't save files or add additional data to home directories, the issue may be from their individual quotas. Using one of these commands can assist the helpdesk in resolving user's issues.

Summary 07:39-07:55
That's all we have for this lesson. We learned about issues, problems, and possible solutions for user login issues, file access issues, password issues, privilege elevation and quota issues.

## 7.4.2 Common Permission Problems

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Common Permission Problems 00:00-00:18
While working in Linux, you may run into permission denied errors. These are common errors that can mean anything from attempting to open the wrong file type, needing administrative privileges, or not having the necessary permissions for a file. Let's review a few of these common errors.

Linux Permissions 00:18-01:17
The three common permissions for files and folders are read, write, and execute. You must have the right permission to accomplish your task.

For example, You may be working in a directory and find a file that needs to be updated. You open the file, make your updates, and attempt to save only to receive a permission denied error. When we look at the directory permissions, we see that our user only has read permissions. This means we'll inherit read-only permissions for the file too. We can read, open, and view the file, but we're not allowed to make changes, edit, or write. Any changes we make in an application can't be saved to the file.

You may attempt to run a command to give your user read and write permissions to the folder and its contents, but you receive a permission denied error again. This means we need not only write permissions for the directory but also administrative privileges to change the permissions.

This would require us to have administrative permissions and to run the command with sudo.

Once run, we now have read and write permissions to the directory and all items within the folder.

Troubleshooting Permission Errors 01:17-01:54
When troubleshooting permissions, there are steps you can take to help address permission issues quickly. Remember first to check the file type. If you're attempting to open a file with the wrong application, you may receive a permission denied error. Next, check the existing permissions of the files or folders you're attempting to access. Do you need executable rights? If so, alter the permissions to the file. You can add or remove read, write, or executable permissions as needed to access the files. If you still receive an error, verify if you need administrative privileges to access the files. This may require the assistance of a system administrator. These steps can help isolate the problem and help solve permission denied errors.

Summary 01:54-02:08
In this lesson, we learned about permission denied errors, reviewed the different permission types, and identified steps we can use to troubleshoot permission errors.

## 7.4.3 User and Permission Issue Facts

User accounts and permissions issues go hand in hand. When troubleshooting either piece, a systems administrator must be aware of how one affects the other.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>User login issues</li>
<li>User file access issues</li>
<li>Privilege elevation</li>
<li>Quota issues</li></ul>

### User Login Issues

Many of the user account issues are encountered when logging into a system. These problems are most commonly one of the following:

<ul><li>Forgotten password – Simply mistyping or not remembering one's password.</li>
<li>Caps Lock is on – Typing the correct password but with the wrong case because the Caps Lock is engaged.</li>
<li>Case sensitivity in the password – Linux is case-sensitive, including passwords.</li>
<li>Expired or locked account – An account that has been disabled or locked can't be accessed.</li>
<li>Time of day restrictions – Some systems restrict access based on business or other hour settings.</li></ul>

### User File Access Issues

When a user can't access a file or folder resource on a Linux system after having logged in, this typically means a file permission is blocking access. Permissions and file rights are assigned to users and groups, either through the standard permission system, or through Access Control Lists (ACLs) or other extended attributes. Since permissions can come from multiple security pieces, untangling them can take time and meticulous examination.

### ls -l

`drwxr-xr-x+  2  root  root      4096  Nov  28  18:16  corp_files`

In that case, the getfacl command can be used to view ACL assignments.

### Privilege Elevation

Privilege elevation issues are more of a concern from a security perspective. When too many privileges are granted to a user, then that user becomes an attack vector for a hacker. Once the user is compromised, whether through a simple password, phishing, or some other avenue, the system becomes compromised if the user has too many rights associated with their account. An example might be with the sudo command. If a user account is compromised, but they have full access to all commands through sudo, the entire system is now compromised.

Correctly assigning tasks to users through the /etc/sudoers file is the primary way to limit this security risk.

### Quota Issues

Quotas are assigned per disk volume and can be enabled or disabled as needed. Frequently, quotas are defined for users as part of all users on a system. These restrictions can be sufficient for most users, but leave one user, such as one that has the responsibility of moving or copying files across systems, with insufficient access. One way to deal with these problems is to assign quotas to a specific user that has such requirements that are higher than the standard user. This is done with the setquota command.

Although this lesson does not cover all possible scenarios, and does not provide specific resolution steps for fixing the problems presented, knowing which pieces can cause problems, and where they typically originate, can be of great value to resolving user and permission issues on a Linux system.
