---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 14.1 Bash Shell Scripting
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the purpose of the shell declaration (the shebang)?</li>
<li>How can you comment out lines in a shell script?</li>
<li>Which methods can you use to run a script from the command-line?</li>
<li>Why might you need to use the <b class="fw-bold">declare</b> command in a script?</li></ul>

In this lesson, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Execute and source a script</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Shell declaration</td>
    <td>
      The first line in a script that holds the path to the bash
      interpreter.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Comment</td>
    <td>
      A line in a bash shell script that helps a script writer understand
      how the script is constructed but is ignored when the script is run.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Variable</td>
    <td>A key-value pair that maps a variable name to a value.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      3.1 Given a scenario, create simple shell scripts to automate common
      tasks
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>Shell script elements</li>
        <ul>
          <li>Variables</li>
          <li>Shell built-in commands</li>
          <ul>
            <li>Read</li>
            <li>echo</li>
            <li>source</li>
          </ul>
        </ul>
        <li>
          Environment variables
          <ul>
            <li>$PATH</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
        <li>Relative and absolute paths</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 14.1.1 Bash Scripting Overview

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Bash Scripting Overview 00:00-00:25
In this lesson, we'll discuss bash scripting. Linux allows you to create powerful shell scripts that can be run from the shell prompt. Shell scripts can be used to run single commands or multiple commands sequentially. They can also be used to read input from the end user or other shell commands and make decisions based on that input.

Sample Shell Script 00:25-00:36
A shell script is a text file that contains a series of commands that are executed in the order they appear in the file. A sample shell script is shown here.

Specify Shell 00:36-01:02
First is the pound sign (#), an exclamation point (!), and then the path to the bash shell. The first line of any shell script must specify which shell the script is written to run under. Here we're going to run this using the '/bin/bash' shell. When the script is run, a new subshell is created using the specified shell, and then the script's contents are processed within that sub-shell.

Script Comments 01:02-01:22
Next, here's a comment. Notice there's a pound sign followed by some text. A line of text within a script that begins with a pound sign is just a comment that won't be displayed or processed. Comments are optional, but it's best to comment right after the shell declaration with a description of what the script does and sometimes who wrote it.

Shell Commands 01:22-02:00
Next, we have two commands, the echo command and the date command. These elements are simple shell commands we normally use at the shell prompt, and we'll run them from within the script.

First is the echo command, which we'll use to display this text on the screen. Then, when that command is done, it will run the date command, displaying the current date and time on the screen. These are optional. You can choose whatever commands you want inside the shell script.

The last part is 'exit 0.' This indicates the end of the script and tells the shell what to do after running the commands in the script. This is telling the shell to exit.

Run the Script 02:00-02:34
When we run the script, the output is sent to the standard out, which by default, is the screen. Notice that the script first displayed the text indicated by the echo command. Then, the date command was processed. The output is shown here. Then the shell exited the script and returned us to the command prompt as it was scripted. Shell scripting is very flexible. Just remember to put each command on a separate line. This was a simple script, with no branching, decision-making within the script, or end-user interaction.

Capture User Input 02:34-03:07
The bash shell allows for much more complex scripts than this simple one. For example, we could make the script interactive by having the script ask the user a question and capture the input for processing. This is typically done using the echo command with the read command.

The echo command is used to present the user with a question. Here it's, "What directory do you want to add to the path?" The read command is used to pause the script, present a prompt on the screen, and then read in the input that the user enters in a variable we define.

The read Command 03:07-04:07
In this script, the user is prompted for the name of a directory he or she wants to add to the path environment variable. The read command here provides the user with a prompt to enter a directory name. Once the user presses the Enter key, the value that was inputted is assigned to the variable, here, named NEWPATH.

The variable is stored in memory, and the echo command is used again to display the value they entered, which says, "You want to add," and then we reference the NEWPATH variable.

Here we asked the user to specify a directory path to be added to the path environment table, but we didn't actually add it in this script. We just echoed back, "This is the path you want to add," and then we ended the script.

If we want to modify the path environment table variable, we need to add more commands to the shell script. It's helpful when writing scripts to ask, "If I were doing this from the shell prompt, what commands would I use?" Then, enter those commands in the script.

Apply User Input 04:07-04:43
In this example, we'll use the same script, except we'll add the directory specified by the user to the path environment table and then export the path. Notice that we've added the variable assignment command to the script where we say "PATH=." Then we include whatever the current paths are in the path environment variable and then append to the end of those paths a colon (:) followed by the path that the end user specified.

Then we export it and use the echo command to show the end user what the path environment variable looks like. Here it's, "Your path environment variable is now:" followed by the current value.

Dynamic Variable Declaration 04:43-05:05
You may have noticed that we didn't declare the NEWPATH variable anywhere in the script. Many other scripting or programming languages do require this. The bash shell's a lot more forgiving. In this instance, the bash shell will create the new path variable for us in memory dynamically. Then, using the read command, it will assign whatever the user inputs into NEWPATH.

Declare Variable Type 05:05-06:01
Of course, you can declare and type variables within the script if you want to. This is done using the declare command in the script. This could be useful when you want the user to enter a number instead of text with the read command.

Remember, when creating shell scripts, the bash shell interprets anything entered in at the read command by the user as text, even if it contains numbers. Fortunately, if we declare the variables first and type them as integers, the variable will be interpreted as numbers on which you can perform arithmetic operations. You can't do that with text.

Here, we've added declare statements to the beginning of a script to declare three variables named NUM1, NUM2, and TOT. Because we used the -i option, the variables are specified as integers. So, the bash shell will interpret the values assigned to these variables as whole numbers. This allows us to perform any arithmetic operations we want on them.

Summary 06:01-06:28
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we introduced you to basic scripting concepts on a Linux system. We talked about the components that comprise the shell script. We then discussed how you can use the read command to read input from the end user in a script. And then, we ended this lesson by reviewing how to declare and type variables within a script.

## 14.1.2 Bash Script Execution

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Bash Script Execution 00:00-00:20
When developing scripts, we usually want to execute them from the shell prompt. Unfortunately, our scripts aren't automatically configured to work this way. In this lesson, we'll take a look at some options for running shell scripts and how to properly configure the PATH variable so that they can run without errors.

Options for Running Shell Scripts 00:20-01:22
When creating our scripts, we start out by writing them and saving them as a text document. If you try to run a newly created script file, you'll get an error message because new files aren't executable by default. To get around this, we have two options.

The first is to simply call the shell executable itself, such as /bin/bash, and tell it to execute the script file.

The other option is to assign the Execute permission to the text file. With the Execute permission assigned, any file—including a simple text file—can execute from the shell prompt. To make this happen, you simply enable the Execute permission for the owner, group, others, or any combination of them using the chmod command. So in this example here, we've added the Execute permission to the owner on this file. We can do the same thing using the numeric permission format as seen here.

After that, I can run this script from the shell prompt. All I have to do is enter its name, just as I would with any other system command.

Configure PATH 01:22-04:36
But there's one other problem that you'll likely run into when using scripts—the path configuration.

When running a script, the Bash shell needs to know where the file exists. If we're just running our own scripts for some testing, we need to either specify the full path to the script file or use a relative path. Even if you're in the same directory, if you don't specify a full or relative path to the script file, you'll get a Command Not Found error message. By supplying the full or relative path, the Bash shell knows where the script is and doesn't have to look through the PATH environment variable to find it.

If an administrator wants others to run their scripts, they'll typically want to avoid having other users type the full or relative path. One option is to save the script in a directory that already exists in the PATH [path]environment variable—maybe in the bin directory within each user's home directory. Most Linux distributions automatically include this in the PATH variable, as long as the bin directory exists somewhere. A Bash configuration file automatically adds that directory to the PATH environment variable when the shell is started. Then, because it's there, any stored files can be run from the shell prompt without specifying the full path to the file.

Alternatively, you could take the directory where that script file resides and add it to the existing PATH environment variable. To do this, we need to use two different commands. First, we use PATH= to set the value of the PATH environment variable. Notice that we first reference the existing PATH environment variable with $PATH.

If we don't do this, we'll overwrite PATH, and nothing will work properly on the system afterwards. Then we append a colon followed by the new directory path that we want to add. The last step is to export the new PATH variable. By exporting it, we make sure that the newly assigned value will be made available to all other shell sessions. If we don't export it, the new variable will only apply to the current one.

Unfortunately, when the system reboots, the PATH variable changes won't be saved and will reset to the default. To make sure that the new settings are persistent across system restarts, we need to edit one of the Bash configuration files and add these two variable assignment commands to that file.

At this point, you should decide which shell configuration file is the right one to use. It depends on a few things. First, it depends on your Linux distribution because different distributions use different file sets. You have to look at your distribution to figure out which one it uses.

Do you want it to apply to just one user on the system—maybe your user account, for example? Or do you want this change to apply to all users? If you want this to apply to everyone, you need to make the change to a global Bash configuration file, such as /etc/profile. On the other hand, if you only cared about making the change for a single user—such as yourself—you'd just find the appropriate hidden configuration file within your /home directory. It might be something like.bashrc. Then it'd only apply to your particular user account.

Okay, that'll wrap up this lesson on Bash script execution.

Summary 04:36-05:01
In this lesson, we went over some options for running shell scripts, like calling the shell executable itself or assigning the Execute permission to the text file. We also went over some different problems that could arise with the PATH variable and how to address these concerns.

## 14.1.3 Executing and Sourcing a Script

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Execute and Source a Script 00:00-00:34
In this demonstration, we're going to look at the differences between executing a script and sourcing a script. The main difference between the two is that when you execute a script, it runs in a new shell process. When you source a script, it still runs, but it's run in your current shell process. The important thing to understand about execution is that since the script is run in a new shell process, any environment changes made while the script is being executed will be gone once the script finishes running.

Create Scripts 00:34-01:50
To see how this works, let's use nano to create a new script called sourced.sh. The first entry I'll add is the simple command, echo $$. This command displays the current process IDs that are being used in my current shell.

Next, I'll create a variable by typing A="This script is sourced". And then, to be able to see the contents of that variable when the script runs, I'll add echo $A. To save my changes, I press Ctrl + O to commit the script to a disk, and then I press Enter to use the name that I specified when nano was started.

To create a second script, let's change the variable from A to B and change the sentence to say executed instead of sourced. And lastly, let's change the second echo line to reflect our new variable. To save these changes as a new file, I'll press Ctrl+X and then Y to confirm my choice. But now I want to change the name to executed.sh and then press Enter. And since I changed the name, I need to type Y one more time to confirm the new name.

Change Permissions 01:50-02:45
Now when I run ls -l \*.sh, you see that the two scripts were created. But when you look at the permissions, you see that neither have the Execute permission. That means as they now stand, I won't be able to run them.

To grant the Execute permission, I first type chmod. Then for the permissions, I'll type u+x and the names of the two files that I want to change, which are sourced.sh and executed.sh. The u+x in this command means that we're going to add the Execute permission for the owner of this script.

Now when I run ls -l \*.sh again, you can see that the owner of these two scripts now has the appropriate permission. Also notice that the files have changed to the color green, which for this distribution means that they're executable files.

Source a Script 02:45-03:57
With our scripts created, let's run them and see what happens. Let's start with the sourced script. To help you remember what this script does, I'll run cat sourced.sh here. And then, to be able to see my current shell's process ID, I'll run the ps command.

To source a script, you can either type source and the script's name, or you can type . and the script's name. Know that if you use the source option, the script will run if it's in the current directory. If not, you can find it by looking in the $PATH variable. In other words, when you use just a dot, the script has to exist in the current directory.

Notice that when I press Enter, the echo $$ line of our script shows the same process ID as my Bash shell, indicating that it was run in my current shell. It also created the A environment variable, and the contents of that variable were echoed to the screen. Since a sourced script runs in your current shell, any environment variables are still available even after the script is run. To prove that, when I run echo $A outside of the script, I still see the contents of the A variable.

Execute a Script 03:57-04:47
To better see the difference between sourcing and execution, let's clear the screen and repeat this process, but this time we'll run our second script. First, we'll use cat to display it. Next, we'll run ps to see the current processes. And now, we'll execute the script by running ./executed.sh.

As we examine the results, notice that the Process number used to run the script is different from the current Bash shell. With this script, we created the B environment variable, but when I run echo $B, all we see is the new line that the echo command printed. That's because, as we told you earlier, when you execute a script, any changes to the environment are lost once the script has been run. That's why there isn't anything currently stored in our B variable.

Summary 04:47-04:59
And that'll be it for our demonstration. In this demo, we showed you the differences between executing and sourcing a script.

## 14.1.4 Scripting Facts

At its most basic level, a Bash script is a set of commands stored in a file. When the Bash shell reads the file, it executes the commands as if they were typed on the keyboard.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Basic bash script rules and components</li>
<li>The time command</li></ul>

### Basic Bash Script Rules and Components

There are basic rules that govern how a Bash script should be written and run.

<ul>
<li>Specify the Bash shell that you intend to run the script.</li>
<li>Use comments to explain what the script does.</li>
<li>Use <b class="fw-bold">exit 0</b> to end the script.</li>
<li>
  Assign execute permissions to the script with the
  <b class="fw-bold">chmod</b> command.
</li>
<li>
  Use one of the following methods to run the script:
  <ul>
    <li>
      Add the folder that contains the script to the
      <b class="fw-bold">PATH</b> environment variable; then enter the
      script name at the shell prompt.
    </li>
    <li>
      Save the script in a folder that is already in
      <b class="fw-bold">PATH</b> , such as /usr/bin or /bin; then enter
      the name of the script.
    </li>
    <li>
      Type the full path name to the script to run it from anywhere.
    </li>
    <li>
      Type
      <b class="fw-bold">./ <i class="fs-italicize">script_name</i></b> to
      run the script if it resides in the current directory. (./ indicates
      the present working directory.)
    </li>
  </ul>
</li>
</ul>

The following table lists some simple scripting components:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Component</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Examples</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Shell declaration</td>
    <td>
      The shell declaration should come first in the script. It starts
      with a number sign and exclamation point (#!), followed by the path
      to the shell executable. A common nickname for this line is shebang.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>#!/bin/bash</b> specifies that the script will run in the Bash
      shell.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td height="74">Comments</td>
    <td height="74">
      Comments begin with a number sign (#). The shell ignores these lines
      when running the script. Comments help communicate how the script
      was constructed and what it is designed to do.
    </td>
    <td height="74"><b># This is a Bash script</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Commands</td>
    <td>
      When a script runs, it executes commands as if they were entered in
      the command line. Commands can be typed on a single line or
      separated using a semi-colon (;).
      <h2>echo</h2>
      <ul>
        <li>
          It is a good practice to always use quotes when you want a
          variable to represent a literal value.
        </li>
        <li>Use a dollar sign ($) to display the value of a variable.</li>
        <li>Use a backslash (\) to display special characters.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        The <b>read</b> command creates a variable and prompts the user to
        type in text. It assigns the value the user types to the variable.
        By default, the user input is treated as a text string.
      </p>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>#!/bin/bash<br />
        ls /home/user/Pictures
        <br />
        exit 0</b>
      <p>
        This script uses the <b>ls</b> command to list the contents of the
        /home/user/Pictures directory.
      </p>
      <b>#!/bin/bash <br />
        echo "What is your name?" <br />
        read variable1 <br />
        echo "Hello," $variable1"."<br />
        exit 0</b><br />
      <p>
        The script prints What is your name? on the screen, prompts the
        user for input, captures the user's input in a variable named
        variable1, then displays the contents of that variable on the
        screen <i class="fs-italicize">.</i>
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td height="245">Variables</td>
    <td height="245">
      Variables hold values that the script uses when running. These
      values can be either numbers or text. Keep the following in mind
      when using variables:
      <ul>
        <li>
          Linux script variables are commonly written using all capital
          letters. This helps programmers quickly identify them.
        </li>
        <li>
          When creating variables, place the equals sign (=) immediately
          after the variable with no space. If a space follows the
          variable name, the script treats it as a command and tries to
          execute it.
        </li>
        <li>
          Use a space after the equals sign (=) only when you want the
          variable to be the output of a command.
        </li>
        <li>
          Use quotes if a variable value has a space in it. It is a good
          practice to always use quotes when you want a variable to
          represent a character string.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td height="245">
      <b>variable1=Hello</b> assigns variable1 the value of Hello. <br />
      <b>variable1 = Hello</b> causes an error because the script tries to
      run the command variable1, which by default does not exist. <br />
      <b>variable1="Hello, Mr. Smith"</b> assigns variable1 the value of
      Hello, Mr. Smith. <br />
      <b>variable1=Hello, Mr. Smith</b> assigns variable1 the value of
      Hello, and then displays an error because it treats Mr. as a command
      and tries to execute it. <br />
      <b>variable1=pwd</b> assigns variable1 the value of pwd. <br />
      <b>variable1= pwd</b> assigns variable1 the value of the result of
      running the <b>pwd</b> command. (For example, /home/jdoe.)
      <div>
        <div class="to-info-box">
          <div class="to-info-box-body">
            <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
            <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
              <span>
                You can manipulate environment variables from within a
                script. For example, you could modify the MAILTO
                environment variable by including <b>MAILTO=root</b> in a
                script. This will cause notifications or other conditional
                events to be mailed to the root superuser account by
                default.</span>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Variable declarations</td>
    <td>
      The <b>declare -i</b> command is used to type a variable as an
      integer. It can only contain whole numbers. It can't contain text or
      numbers with decimal places.
      <br />
      The <b>declare -f</b> command is used to display all defined
      functions or just a specific defined function.
    </td>
    <td>
      <h2>
        #!/bin/bash declare -i num1 declare -i num2 declare -i total
        num1=7 num2=5 total=num1+numw echo $total exit 0
      </h2>
      The output of this script is the integer 12 because the shell treats
      the variable values as integers.
      <div>
        <div class="to-info-box">
          <div class="to-info-box-body">
            <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
            <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
              <span>
                Numeric text strings can also be converted to integers
                using the following format:
                <br />
                <b>echo $[$num1+$num2]</b> gives an output of 12
                regardless of whether the <b>declare</b> command is
                used.</span>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### The time Command

#### time

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Command</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Examples</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>time <i>command</i></b>
  </td>
  <td>
    The output shows three values as follows:
    <ul>
      <li>
        real - The time from the moment the Enter key was pressed until
        the moment the command is completed.
      </li>
      <li>user - The amount of CPU time spent in user mode.</li>
      <li>system - The amount of CPU time spent in kernel mode.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>time wget wget https://wordpress.org/latest.zip</b>
    use the <b>wget</b> command to download the zip file, but also
    displays the time it took.
    <h2>
      real&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;0m1.604s
      user&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;0m0.042s
      sys&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;0m0.099s
    </h2>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
