---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 6.1 Red Hat Package Manager (RPM)
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the role of a package manager?</li>
<li>How does the RPM naming convention help you to quickly select a package with a specific version?</li>
<li>How would you check a package's authenticity?</li>
<li>What sources are available for obtaining packages?</li>
<li>What utility will extract files from an RPM package without installing the package?</li>
<li>How would you verify that a package has been installed?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Install and remove an RPM package</li>
<li>Update an RPM package</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Term</th>
  <th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Package manager</td>
  <td>
    A collection of software tools that automates the process of
    downloading, installing, upgrading, configuring, and removing
    computer applications in Linux.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>RPM</td>
  <td>
    The Red Hat Package Manager used to install software packages on
    Red Hat, Fedora, OpenSUSE, and other Linux distributions.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Package dependency</td>
  <td>
    A dependency that occurs when one software package requires
    another package to be installed to work properly.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Exam</th>
  <th>Objective</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
  <td>
    1.5 Use package management
    <br />
    <ul>
      <li>
        Install, remove, and update packages with the rpm command
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
  <td>
    1.6 Given a scenario, build and install software
    <br />
    <ul>
      <li>Package management</li>
      <ul>
        <li>RPM</li>
      </ul>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 6.1.1 Red Hat Package Manager (RPM)

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Red Hat Package Manager 00:00-01:21
As a Linux system administrator, you need to know how to install and manage software on a Linux system. Installing software on Linux can be somewhat challenging if you're coming to Linux from Windows. Installing software on Linux isn't any more difficult than it is on other operating systems, but the process is very different.

When you're installing software on a Linux system, you essentially have two options. The first option is to install a pre-compiled application or service from a software package. The package contains all of the executables and supporting files you need, such as configuration files. Everything is pre-packaged, pre-compiled, and configured for a specific hardware architecture.

The second option is to install the application or service from source code. When you install an application or service from the source code, you have to take a compiler on your system and compile that application source code into an executable that will run on your hardware and on your distribution.

In this lesson, we're going to focus on the first option, installing software from packages. To install software from a package, you have to have a package manager installed. Many distributions, such as openSUSE and Fedora, use the Red Hat Package Manager, or RPM, to install and manage RPM packages on the system. Other distributions, such as Ubuntu, use the Debian package management system. We're going to focus on RPM in this video.

Package Manager Functions 01:21-01:41
Regardless of which package manager your distribution uses, the manager performs a similar set of tasks. It installs software on the system, updates software that has already been installed, uninstalls software that you don't want on the system anymore, queries software to see if it's installed and functioning properly, and verifies the integrity of installed software.

RPM Database 01:41-02:12
To keep track of all this data, RPM stores information about the packages installed on your system in the RPM database file, which is /var/lib/rpm. Whenever you install, update a package on your system, or uninstall a package on your system, the appropriate change is made inside of this database.

On the rare occasion that this file becomes corrupted, you can rebuild the database by running rpm --rebuilddb. It should only take a few minutes, and then you can manage applications and services on your Linux system again.

RPM Package Naming Conventions 02:12-03:05
RPM packages are actually pretty easy to install. Most RPM packages are downloaded as a single file, and you process that single file to install the application or service. You don't have to compile anything from source code. You can use the RPM command at the shell prompt.

Before we move on, let's discuss the naming conventions RPM packages use. They're important because RPM packages are built for a specific CPU architecture or a specific Linux distribution. Because RPM packages come pre-compiled for specific hardware architectures, multiple versions of the same RPM packages may be available in order to accommodate different platforms. You might even see multiple versions of the same RPM package for different Linux distributions. The important thing to remember is that if you're downloading and installing an RPM package, you need to make sure you get the correct version for your system, and you can do this by checking the package's name.

Here's an example of an RPM package name.

RPM Package Versions 03:05-05:40
This is for a utility called gftp. It's used to install a simple graphical FTP client on the Linux system. Different parts of this file name are used to indicate different information about this particular package. First, we have the package name. It simply identifies the name of the package. In this case, it's gftp. Next, we have the version number. This section specifies the version of the software in the package. In this case, the software version number is 2.0.19.

Then there's the release number, which indicates the current release of the software version number. On occasion, errors are encountered in the process of creating an RPM package. When the package is released and made available for the same version of the software that just fixes a packaging error, this release number is incremented. In this example, the release number is 12.

Next, we have the distribution field. This field is optional. If present, this field indicates that this package has been compiled for a very specific Linux distribution. In this case, the distribution is fc21. This package was compiled specifically for Fedora Core version 21.

If a package is distribution-specific, you may see other values in this field, such as RHL, which specifies that the package is intended for Red Hat Linux. Or you might see SUSE with a package compiled for a SUSE Linux system.

Finally, we have the CPU architecture. This part of the file name identifies which CPU the software within this package has been compiled to run on. In this example, the CPU architecture is X86_64, which indicates that the software within this package is designed to run on 64-bit X86 CPUs.

Other values might be specified in this field, depending on the package. For example, i386 means the software will run on any Intel 80386 or later CPU. It's important to note that these are forward-looking, meaning that if it says i386, that doesn't mean that it only runs on a 386 processor. It just means that it will run on any processor as old as a 386. Anything newer should be just fine as well. i586 specifies that the software can run on an Intel Pentium distribution or later. i686 means that the software will run on a Pentium 4 distribution or later. You may also see no architecture, which specifies that the package is not architecture-dependent; it will run on any CPU.

Obtain RPM Packages 05:40-06:37
RPM packages are usually located on your distribution installation DVD, and they may also be available from a variety of websites on the internet. However, the best locations for obtaining RPM packages are the package repositories made specifically for your Linux distribution. These packages are configured to run on your particular distribution.

For example, if you're running a Fedora system, then you can view your package repository locations in this file: /etc/yum.repos.d/fedora.repo. You can also use the yumdownloader utility to download a particular package directly from one of these repositories. This is helpful because you don't have to wonder whether you're getting the right version or the right architecture. If you use yumdownloader followed by the name of the package that you want to pull down, it will download the package file from the repository that's pre-configured for your distribution. This eliminates a lot of confusion, and it saves a lot of time.

After you download a package, it's a really good idea to use the RPM command to check its authenticity.

Verify RPM Packages 06:37-07:31
Doing this lets you know whether or not the package you just downloaded came directly from the organization responsible for maintaining that software or whether it's been altered or corrupted in some way during transit.

The way you check the authenticity of the package is to use the rpm checksig command. You run rpm --checksig followed by the file name of the package.

In this case, we're checking the gftp package. When we do this, the RPM command checks the package's digital signature. Notice that the command output says that it's OK. The package hasn't been altered by anyone since it was created.

If it were corrupted or tampered with in transit, then the digital signature wouldn't match anymore, and you would get an error message that lets you know you really shouldn't use that package and you need to go get another copy that's intact.

Summary 07:31-07:58
And that's the end of this video on RPM. In this lesson, we discussed package software and the Red Hat package manager. We talked about the role and function of software packages. We covered naming conventions that are used with RPM packages. We discussed how to download packages. Then we ended this lesson by talking about how to verify that a downloaded package hasn't been corrupted.

## 6.1.2 RPM Package Management

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

RPM Package Management 00:00-00:14
In this lesson, we're going to review how to manage RPM packages from the shell prompt on Linux. We'll look at installing and uninstalling packages as well as querying the RPM database.

Install Packages 00:14-02:03
Installing RPM packages directly can be done with the rpm command. You enter rpm -i followed by the package filename that you want to install. If I wanted to install the gftp package, for example, I'd run rpm -i and then the full filename for the gftp package.

Now, when I run this command, the software will be installed on my system from the package itself, and then the application will be ready for me to run. There's one key weakness to using just the -i option, though, which is that it doesn't provide much feedback as it installs the package. By including -h and -v with -i, we get more information as an RPM package is installed. The -h option tells the RPM utility to print hash marks on screen as a progress indicator. The -v option tells RPM to operate verbosely, meaning that it's going to put the output on the screen. Okay, let's move on.

One useful feature of RPM is its ability to calculate dependencies for you. A given Linux software package may be dependent on another package already being installed before it can work properly. Requirements like this are referred to as package dependencies. When you run the RPM utility, it's going to check the package that you want to install and query your system to see if you have all of the dependent packages. If you don't, it'll generate an error specifying which packages are missing.

If you need to check dependencies for a particular package without installing the software, you can use the --test option with the -i option. An example of doing that is shown here: rpm -i --test plus the name of the RPM package that I want to test. Even though we specify -i in the command, it doesn't install the package. It just verifies package dependencies. If there are any failed dependencies, they'll be printed on screen, which allows you to go ahead and install the necessary software first.

Uninstall Packages 02:03-02:47
Now let's look at how to uninstall these packages. We do this with the rpm command again. Enter rpm and -e, which stands for erase. The -e option tells the RPM utility to erase that package from the system.

Let's "erase" the RPM packages we previously installed using the rpm -e command with the name of the package we want removed. When you use the rpm command to erase a package from the system, it's going to check for dependencies during the uninstall process. If other software is currently installed on the system that is dependent upon the package that you're trying to remove, an error message will be displayed, and it will list all those dependent packages. Before you can uninstall the package, you're trying to get rid of, all of the dependent packages are going to have to be removed first.

Query the rpm Database 02:47-03:22
Besides installing and uninstalling packages, we can also query the RPM database. That's done using the -q option with the rpm command. This allows us to view information about installed packages. When you use -q, you have to specify exactly what it is that you want to query. In this example, I've run rpm -qi. You'll notice that I have to specify a package name. When I do, detailed information about that

package is displayed on my screen. In this case, I entered rpm -qi and the package name, gftp, and now I see all this useful information.

Summary 03:22-03:34
That's it for this lesson where we talked about managing RPM packages. We went over how to install, uninstall, and query them.

## 6.1.3 Manage RPM Packages

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Manage RPM Packages 00:00-00:15
In this demonstration, we're going to practice managing RPM packages. We'll discuss how to verify already installed packages as well. And we'll end this demo by talking about how you can extract individual files.

Install a New Package 00:15-02:45
To start off, in order to manage packages on this Linux system, I have to have administrative access, so we'll switch to the root account. Okay, now we can use the rpm utility to install a new package. We already have packages downloaded to work with in our Downloads folder. If we run the ls command, we see packages for gcc and gnuchess.

GCC is a C compiler that's used to compile source code into an executable that can run on the system. Before we install gcc, let's verify that it's not installed already. We do that by typing rpm -q and the name of the package we want to query, gcc. This will tell us whether or not it's already installed. We see that the GCC package isn't installed currently. So, let's install it.

Before we install the gcc rpm, we run the rpm command again, and we have a couple of options to work with. One is -i. This just tells rpm to install the package that we specify. The -i option will only install a package and nothing else.

If we already have GCC installed and we didn't run the rpm -q gcc command to verify that first, rpm will tell us that the package is already installed. If the version of GCC that was installed is an older version, we'd only be told that the package is installed.

The -U option is typically used when installing new packages. U stands for upgrade and does two things. First, if a package isn't currently installed, -U will install that package for you. For example, if GCC were already installed and it was an older version, -U would upgrade the package.

Now, two useful options to include when installing packages are -h and -v. -h displays hash marks on the screen as the installation process goes on. This lets us see where the process is and helps estimate how long we have to wait. The -v option will run the command in verbose mode. This lets us see what's going on during the process. So, let's type in rpm -Uhv.

Next, we specify the name of the RPM package we want to install, gcc. We can just type gc and press the Tab key. Tab complete will get the full filename from our Downloads directory. We do need to provide the full filename for the package when installing via rpm. Okay, let's press Enter to start. We see that the -h and -v options made these progress indicators come up. Let's run rpm -q gcc again to verify that the package is there.

Uninstall a Package 02:45-03:01
We also use rpm to uninstall packages. Let's remove gcc this time. We type rpm -e, for erase, and the name of the package we want to remove. We don't need to specify the full filename. Press Enter.

Test Dependencies 03:01-04:01
We can also use the rpm command to test dependencies. Most Linux packages don't include all the software they need to run. They're dependent on other packages being installed first. I always make sure that I have prerequisite software before installing subsequent packages.

Now, rpm isn't the best utility to use for working through dependencies. It'll tell you what the dependent packages are, but you have to manually install them. Sometimes, the dependency chain gets extremely long, and it takes quite some time. There are better utilities to do this with. We'll discuss a few in a different demonstration.

But let's go ahead and use rpm to test dependencies. We'll get a list of all the dependent packages that are required for a given package before we can install it. Let's test it out on this one, gnuchess. We type rpm and then use the -i option as if we're going to install it. But now, instead of installing the package, we use the --test option. We see that there's a failed dependency. Before this package will run, we need to have the Ruby package on our system.

Verify Installed Packages 04:01-04:33
We can also use the rpm utility to verify an installed package and make sure that no dependencies have become broken. This is done by using the rpm command and the -V option. You can verify just one particular package, or you can use the -Va option to verify all of the packages on your system. Let's type rpm -Va and press Enter. This will take a while to run because it's evaluating everything. When it's done, we need to look at the output and use the codes to determine the issues.

Extract Files 04:33-05:27
Now, there may be times when you need to grab a single file from an rpm package. For example, maybe the installed version got corrupted. Instead of uninstalling and reinstalling the whole application, you only need the original version of that file copied over. In order to do this, we need to convert the package to an archive file and then use the appropriate utility to extract the necessary files. An archive file is the Linux equivalent of zipping.

We're going to use the rpm2cpio command. This will take an rpm file and convert it to a cpio archive. We enter rpm2cpio followed by the name of the package file to convert. We'll use the gnuchess package. By default, this utility writes its output to the screen. Instead, we're going to redirect the output to a file named gnuchess.cpio. Use the ls command, and now we see that we have an archive file.

Summary 05:27-05:41
And that's the end of this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about how to manage rpm packages on a Linux system using the rpm command.

## 6.1.7 RPM Facts

The Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) is a utility that installs application packages.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>RPM functions</li>
<li>RPM naming convention</li>
<li>Common commands</li></ul>

### RPM Functions

RPM performs various functions as part of package installation.

RPM:

<ul><li>Is used as the package manager on many distributions, such as openSUSE, Red Hat, and Fedora.</li>
<li>Installs and configures pre-compiled, pre-configured applications and services on the system.</li>
<li>Accesses a library containing thousands of packages where the source code is built, compiled, and ready to be installed on a supported Linux architecture or distribution.</li>
<li>Installs, updates, verifies, queries, and uninstalls packages.</li>
<li>Uses a database stored at <b class="fw-bold">/var/lib/rpm</b> that keeps track of all installed packages, their current status, and available updates.</li>
<li>Checks for dependencies on other packages and prompts to install these packages, if necessary. A <i class="fs-italicize">dependency</i> is an application's reliance on another package to perform correctly.</li></ul>

### RPM Naming Convention

RPM uses a standard naming convention. Be aware of the following naming convention details:

<ul>
<li>
The syntax is:
<b><i>packagename</i> - <i>version</i> - <i>release</i> .<i>architecture.rpm</i></b>
</li>
<li>
Release numbers might contain distribution data:
<ul>
  <li><b>fcx</b> is for Fedora</li>
  <li><b>rhlx</b> is for Red Hat</li>
  <li><b>suse</b> <i>xxx</i> is for version <i>xxx</i> of SUSE</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
The architecture type specifies the processor:
<ul>
  <li><b>i386</b> is for any Intel 80386 or newer processor.</li>
  <li><b>i586</b> is for any Intel Pentium I or newer processor.</li>
  <li><b>i686</b> is for any Intel Pentium II or newer processor.</li>
  <li><b>x86_64</b> is for 64-bit Intel or AMD CPUs.</li>
  <li>
    <b>noarch</b> is for any architecture (not architecture-specific).
  </li>
  <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
    <div>
      <div>
        <div>
          <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
            <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>                      
          <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
            <span>
              Typically, i386, i586, and i686 packages will run on
              equivalent AMD processors as well.</span>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
For example, <b>acroread-8.1.3-51.6.i586.rpm</b> means the following:
<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col">Package Name</th>
      <th scope="col">Version Number</th>
      <th scope="col">Release</th>
      <th scope="col">Architecture</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>acroread</td>
      <td>8.1.3</td>
      <td>51.6</td>
      <td>i586</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
</li>
</ul>

### Common Commands

The following table lists and describes several common commands for managing RPM packages:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Command</th>
  <th>Function</th>
  <th>Examples</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><b>rpm</b></td>
  <td>
    Uses the Red Hat Package Manager (RPM) to manage packages. Package
    options are:
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>--rebuilddb</b> rebuilds the database indices from the
        installed package headers.
      </li>
      <li><b>--initdb</b> creates a new database.</li>
      <li>
        <b>--checksig</b> checks the authenticity of the package. The
        option checks the package's digital signing key against the
        package to ensure it has not been altered.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-i</b> installs a package. Uses the entire package filename
        when installing.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-h</b> prints hash marks as the package archive is
        unpacked.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-v</b> displays a verbose version of the installation.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>--test</b> tests a package for uninstalled dependencies
        without actually installing it.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>--nodeps</b> installs the package without checking for
        dependencies. This is not recommended.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>--force</b> installs the package regardless of whether a
        newer version of the package is already installed, package
        files overwrite files from previously installed packages, or
        if the package replaces other installed packages.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-e</b> uninstalls (e.g., erases) a package. To uninstall a
        package, use the package name, not the file name. If
        dependencies exist, the dependent packages must first be
        removed.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-U</b> updates an installed package to the newest version.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-F</b> upgrades the package, but only if an earlier version
        currently exists on the system.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-q</b> queries the computer for information about installed
        packages.
        <div>
          <div>
            <div>
              <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
                <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>                          
              <div>
                <span>
                  Use this with <b>-a</b> to list all packages and
                  <b>-l</b> to show the files associated with the
                  package.</span>
              </div>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-V</b> verifies that packages are free from errors by
        performing an MD5 checksum on the package. RPM only gives
        output when packages have errors. If errors are present, the
        command displays the error code and the file name. The error
        codes are:
        <ul>
          <li>S indicates a problem in the size of a file.</li>
          <li>M indicates a problem with a file's mode.</li>
          <li>
            5 indicates a problem with the MD5 checksum of a file.
          </li>
          <li>
            D indicates a problem with a file's revision numbers.
          </li>
          <li>L indicates a problem with a file's symbolic link.</li>
          <li>U indicates a problem with a file's ownership.</li>
          <li>G indicates a problem with a file's group.</li>
          <li>
            T indicates a problem with the modification time of a
            file.
          </li>
          <li>
            c indicates the specified file is a configuration file.
          </li>
          <li>
            ' <b>.</b> ' in place of a code letter indicates that no
            error is present in that area.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>rpm --checksig acroread</b> checks the authenticity of the
    acroread package.
    <b><br />rpm -i BackupPC-3.1.0-3.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    installs the BackupPC package. <br />
    <b>rpm -ihv http://rpm.sh-linux.org/rpm-fc9/target-SRPMS/BackupPC-3.1.0-3.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    installs the specified package directly from the internet. <br />
    <b>rpm -i --test dbus-python-0.83.0-2.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    tests the computer for uninstalled dependencies for the
    dbus-python package. <br />
    <b>rpm -i --nodeps dbus-python-0.83.0-2.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    installs the package but does not check for missing dependencies.
    <br />
    <b>rpm -i --force dbus-python-0.83.0-2.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    installs the package regardless of effects on other packages.
    <br />
    <b>rpm -e dbus-python</b> removes the package from the computer.
    <br />
    <b>rpm -e --nodeps dbus-python</b> removes the package from the
    computer but does not check for dependent packages. <br />
    <b>rpm -U dbus-python-0.83.0-2.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    removes any version older than the specified version and installs
    the specified package. <br />
    <b>rpm -U --replacepkgs dbus-python-0.83.0-2.fc9.src.rpm</b>
    reinstalls the dbus-python package. This option is for fixing
    errors. <br />
    <b>rpm -qa</b> displays a list of all installed packages. <br />
    <b>rpm -qi BackupPC</b> shows all available information about the
    BackupPC package. <br />
    <b>rpm -q --whatrequires gmp</b> lists the packages that are
    dependent on the gmp package. <br />
    <b>rpm -ql metacity</b> shows the files associated with the
    metacity package. <br />
    <b>rpm -q --provides gmp</b> lists the functions that the gmp
    package provides. <br />
    <b>rpm -q --requires gmp</b> lists the functions that the gmp
    package requires. <br />
    <b>rpm -q --whatprovides /usr/lib/libstlport_gcc.so</b>
    shows the package that provides the libstlport_gcc.so file. <br />
    <b>rpm -V BackupPC</b> verifies the BackupPC package. <br />
    <b>rpm -Va</b> verifies all installed packages.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>rpm2cpio</b></td>
  <td>
    Converts RPM packages into a cpio archive. This is useful for
    extracting files from an RPM package without installing and
    searching for the specific files.
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>rpm2cpio logrotate-1.0-1.i386.rpm &gt; logrotate.cpio</b>
    converts the files from the
    <b>logrotate</b> package into a cpio archive.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
