---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 8.6 Mounting File Systems
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Which directory contains mount points specifically for external storage devices?</li>
<li>What do you need to do to make a USB drive accessible?</li>
<li>What happens if you mount a volume to a directory that already contains data?</li>
<li>How can you verify that a volume is mounted correctly?</li>
<li>Which commands can you use to view the devices that are currently mounted?</li>
<li>How can you prevent users from mounting an optical media drive?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Mount a volume
- Unmount a volume

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th >
Term</th>
<th >
Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">mount</b></td>
<td>View the currently mounted volumes on the system.</td></tr>
<tr><td><b class="fw-bold">df</b></td>
<td>View which file systems are mounted to specific mount points.</td></tr></tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead><tr><th>Exam</th>
<th>Objective</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
<td>2.1 Manage storage devices
<br>
<ul><li>Mount and unmount devices in the file system</li></ul></td></tr>
<tr><td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
<td>1.3 Given a scenario, configure and manage storage using the appropriate tools
<br>
<ul><li>Mounting local and remote devices</li>
<li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
<ul><li>systemd.mount</li>
<li>/etc/fstab</li>
<li>mount</li>
<li>Linux Unified Key Setup (LUKS)</li>
<li>External devices</li></ul></li>
<li>Monitoring storage space and disk usage</li>
<li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
<ul><li>df</li></ul></li></ul>
<p>4.1 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot storage issues</p>
<ul><li>Mount option problems</li></ul>
<br></td></tr></tbody></table>

## 8.6.1 File System Mounting Facts

Hard disk partitions, optical drives, USB drives, and other similar devices in a Linux system must be mounted before they can be used.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Mounting process</li>
<li>Manage and monitor mountings</li>
<li>Manage file system mountings</li>
<li>Troubleshoot storage issues</li></ul>

### Mounting Process

**Mounting** is the process of making a storage device accessible to users through the directory tree. The file system directory that's used to access the files on the device is called the **mount point** .

<ul>
<li>
  Partitions and LVM logical volumes are represented by device files
  located in the <b>/dev</b> directory. However, these storage devices
  must be mounted before the data on them can be accessed.
</li>
<li>
  A storage device can be mounted on a directory in the file system.
  When accessing the directory in the file system, you're actually
  accessing the device that's mounted in that directory.
</li>
<li>
  You should mount storage devices in empty directories. Mounting a
  volume to a directory that contains data makes the data inaccessible.
</li>
<li>
  The <b>/mnt</b> and <b>/media</b> directories (depending on the system
  configuration) are directories that contain mount points specifically
  for external storage devices (e.g., CD-ROM drives, floppy drives, and
  magnetic tape drives).
</li>
<li>
  If LUKS (Linux Unified Key Setup) is used to encrypt a device, the
  passphrase for the key used for encryption must be entered when
  mounted. Although you can can automate this process, it is not
  recommended for laptops.
</li>
</ul>

### Manage and Monitor Mountings

The following files manage and monitor the file system mounting:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>File</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>/etc/fstab</td>
  <td>
    The /etc/fstab file identifies devices to mount each time the
    system boots. When the system boots, it automatically mounts the
    volumes identified in the file. The file contains entries with six
    fields that control how a device is mounted. The following is a
    typical fstab entry:
    <blockquote class="code">
      /dev/sda3 /mnt/disk1 ext3 auto,ro,nosuid,users 0 1
    </blockquote>
    <p>
      An entry consists of the following variables, which are
      described below:
    </p>
    <blockquote class="code">
      [ <i>device_to_mount</i> ] [ <i>mount_point</i> ] [
      <i>file_system_type</i> ] [ <i>options</i> ] [ <i>dump</i> ] [
      <i>fsck</i> ]
    </blockquote>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <i>Device_to_mount</i> is the path to the device file or the
        label that describes the storage device to be mounted.
      </li>
      <li>
        <i>Mount_point</i> specifies where to mount the device. This
        is the directory where the data on the device can be accessed.
      </li>
      <li>
        <i>File_system_type</i> specifies the type of file system that
        has been created on the storage device.
      </li>
      <li>
        <i>Options</i> specify the additional options to be used when
        mounting the device. Multiple options are separated by commas.
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>sync</b> enables synchronous I/O. Changes are written
            to disk immediately. This option is normally used for
            removable storage devices ( <b>async</b> disables this
            function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>async</b> enables asynchronous I/O. Changes are cached
            and then written when the device isn't busy. This option
            is normally used for non-removable devices such as hard
            drives ( <b>sync</b> disables this function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>atime</b> updates the timestamp on each file's inode (
            <b>noatime</b> disables this function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>auto</b> allows the device to be mounted automatically
            when the system boots.
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>noauto</b> prevents the device from being mounted
            automatically when the system boots.
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>dev</b> allows block files to be read from the device (
            <b>nodev</b> disables this function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>exec</b> allows programs and script files in the file
            system to be run ( <b>noexec</b> disables this function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>owner</b> identifies that only the device owner can
            mount the file system.
          </li>
          <li><b>ro</b> mounts the storage device as read-only.</li>
          <li><b>rw</b> mounts the storage device as read/write.</li>
          <li>
            <b>suid</b> allows the SUID bit to be set on files in the
            file system ( <b>nosuid</b> disables this function).
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>nouser</b> allows only the root user to mount the file
            system.
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>users</b> allows any user to mount the file system.
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>defaults</b> uses the following default settings:
            <b>rw</b> , <b>suid</b> , <b>dev</b> , <b>exec</b> ,
            <b>auto</b> , <b>nouser</b> , and <b>async</b> .
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        <i>Dump</i> determines whether the file system needs to be
        dumped. If set to a value of <b>0</b> , it is assumed that the
        file system does not need to be dumped. If set to a value of
        <b>1</b> , the file system will be dumped.
      </li>
      <li>
        <i>fsck</i> determines the order to run <b>fsck</b> (file
        system check) during system boot. This field should always be
        set to a value of <b>1</b> for the device containing the root
        file system (/). All other file systems should be set to a
        value of <b>2</b> .
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>/etc/mtab</td>
  <td>
    The /etc/mtab file tracks the currently mounted volumes on the
    system.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>/procs/mounts</td>
  <td>
    The /procs/mounts file contains entries for all currently mounted
    volumes on the system.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>systemd.mount</td>
  <td>
    A unit file that encodes information about a file system mount
    point controlled and supervised by systemd.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Manage File System Mountings

Use the following commands to manage the file system mounting:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Command</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><h2>mount /dev/[device]</h2></td>
  <td>
    <p>Mount a volume or device. Common mount options:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>-a</b> mounts all file systems listed in the /etc/fstab
        file.
      </li>
      <li><b>-r, ro</b> mounts the volume as read-only.</li>
      <li><b>-w, rw</b> mounts the volume as read/write.</li>
      <li>
        <b>-t</b> specifies the volume type. (If you mount an ext3
        file system without the <b>-t</b> , the system recognizes it
        as an ext2 file system.)
      </li>
      <li><b>-o loop</b> mounts an ISO file.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>mount -a</b> reads the <b>/etc/fstab</b> file and mounts
        all volumes listed (except those with the
        <b>noauto</b> option).
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>mount -rt reiserfs /dev/sdc1 /mnt/reis</b> mounts the sdc1
        device using the read-only Reiser file system to the /mnt/reis
        mount point.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>mount -t iso9660 /dev/sr0 /media/cdrom</b> mounts an
        optical disc device to the /media/cdrom mount point.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>mount -wt vfat /dev/fd0 /mnt/floppy</b> mounts the fd0
        device with the VFAT file system as read/write to the floppy
        mount point.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>mount</b></td>
  <td><p>View the currently mounted volumes on the system.</p></td>
  <td>
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>mount</b> <b>/etc/mtab</b> displays the contents of the
        /etc/mtab file.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>df</b></td>
  <td>
    <p>
      View which file systems are mounted to specific mount points.
    </p>
  </td>
  <td></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><h2>umount</h2></td>
  <td>
    <p>
      Unmount a volume or device from the system. If a "disk is busy"
      error message is displayed when unmounting a device:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>
        Make sure that the current working directory is not in that
        file system.
      </li>
      <li>Close any open files located on that file system.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <ul>
      <li><b>umount /dev/sdc1</b> unmounts the sdc1 device.</li>
      <li>
        <b>umount /mnt/reis</b> unmounts the device on the /mnt/reis
        mount point.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>umount /dev/sr0</b> unmounts the optical disc device.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>umount /mnt/cdrom</b> unmounts the device on the /mnt/cdrom
        mount point (most likely an optical disc drive).
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Troubleshoot Storage Issues

Many storage issues center around the physical aspects of the storage device. Other issues involve operating system configurations. A good strategy for troubleshooting storage issues is to start checking the simplest system features and then move to the more complex features. Many problems are resolved outside of Linux. Here are a few general items to check before moving to the Linux operating system.

<ul><li>Determine whether the storage device has power. If the device is external to the computer, ensure 
that it's plugged in and turned on. A power light is also a good indicator.</li>
<li>If the drive has platters (it's not a solid-state device), determine that the drive is spinning. You should be able to hear the head moving across the platters.</li>
<li>Determine if the drive is recognized by the BIOS/UEFI. If not, the problem could be a hardware issue.</li></ul>

The following table list some issues that are detected and resolved with Linux.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Storage Issue</th>
  <th>Description</th>
  <th>Resolution Techniques</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Degraded storage</td>
  <td>
    Disk volumes, especially RAID sets, may show a status of
    <i>Degraded</i> . This means that I/O errors have been detected on
    a region of the disk. This can occur when one disk in a RAID set
    is offline or is unable to provide the proper RAID redundancy.
  </td>
  <td>Repair or replace the disk volume.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    Missing devices
    <br />
    or volumes
  </td>
  <td>
    A storage device with hardware problems may not show in the /dev
    directory, or the partitions on a storage device might be missing.
  </td>
  <td>
    The <b>fdisk -lu</b> and <b>parted -l</b> commands may give some
    clues to the problem.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Missing mount point</td>
  <td>
    Missing mount points indicate that a partition is not mounted.
    Often, this happens after a reboot.
  </td>
  <td>
    Ensure that the proper entry has been added to the /etc/fstab
    file.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Disk performance</td>
  <td>
    A slow disk can dramatically affect the total performance of a
    Linux system, especially if the system partition is on the slow
    disk.
  </td>
  <td>
    The <b>atop</b> command can be used to monitor disk I/O stats.
    This may give an indication of a slow disk.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Resource exhaustion</td>
  <td>
    A full volume, especially if it's the system volume, can cause
    Linux to freeze or crash.
  </td>
  <td>Use the <b>df</b> command to monitor disk space.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Adapters</td>
  <td>
    Physical storage devices are attached to storage adapters. Example
    are SCSI, RAID, and SATA host bus adapters (HBAs). Other HBAs,
    like a fiber channel adapter, can connect to storage area
    networks.
  </td>
  <td>
    Use <b>/sys/class/scsi_host#/scan</b> to scan for storage devices
    connected to the SCSI adapter.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Storage integrity</td>
  <td>
    Bad sectors and bad blocks on a storage devices can corrupt data.
  </td>
  <td>
    Use the <b>badblocks</b> command to scan for bad sectors and
    blocks.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 8.6.2 Mounting a File System

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Mount a File System 00:00-00:26
In this demonstration, we're going to review how to mount a file system. Specifically, we're going to talk about how to mount a file system from the command-line. We'll talk about how to unmount a file system from the command-line. We'll talk about adding entries to the fstab file. Then we'll end this demonstration by discussing how to mount and unmount LVM logical volumes.

Mount File Systems from the Command-Line 00:26-02:44
To begin with, let's switch to the root account. Now let's run the fdisk command with the -l to view all partitions defined by Linux. As we scroll through all the drives, notice that only this one has enough file space to be our new drive.

We're not going to play with any hard disks at all. Instead, we're going to focus on the partitions stored on the external hard disk drive in my system—sda. You can determine the correct drive by remembering the size of the drive. In this case, the other drives are small, and sda2 is the file size matching the external drive.

In this case, the external drive has the full path /dev/sda2 shown here. The file systems have been created on the partitions, but we still can't save data because they're not currently mounted in the Linux file system. Let's fix that.

Understand that Linux file systems are mounted within directories in the file system. They aren't assigned drive letters, as you'd see in Windows. In Windows, if you added a hard disk with two partitions on it to the system, by default, you'd see two drive letters added to Windows Explorer, maybe drive D and drive E.

Before mounting drives, we want to go into the /mnt directory, which is used for mounting file systems. As a good rule, never mount partitions directly into the /mnt directory, as it will only allow one partition to be mounted. Create a subdirectory called shared inside the /mnt directory. Once you create it, check to ensure it's there as it should be with ls.

Now that we have the shared folder created, it's time to mount the drive to that folder. In this case, mount /dev/sda2 /mnt/shared. When mounting is complete, we switch to the shared directory at the command prompt, such as this. I've just switched over to a completely different hard disk drive. By switching to the shared folder, we're accessing the files on the newly mounted drive. In order to verify that the drive has been mounted correctly, type mount. At the bottom of the list, you'll see the status of the mounted file system.

Unmount File Systems from the Command-Line 02:44-03:30
If you have a file system mounted in a directory somewhere and you no longer need it mounted, you can easily unmount it. Let's first unmount the file system on device /dev/sda2. This'll unmount it from the directory, making any data on that partition inaccessible.

Let's enter umount and then enter the name of the device file for the partition, /dev/sda2, and press Enter. If I type mount, we see that sda is no longer mounted in the /shared directory. Once that umount command has been executed, the /mnt/shared directory just becomes a regular directory on the default partition where it's located.

Add an Entry Using the fstab File. 03:30-05:15
Be aware that if we use the mount command to mount a file system, that mounting will only be persistent as long as the system stays running. As soon as you reboot, the mounting will be gone, and you'll have to redo it manually. Therefore, if you want the file system to be mounted persistently across system reboots, you'll have to add an entry to the /etc/fstab file.

To do this, we enter vi to open the vi editor and then specify /etc/fstab. There's already some default file mounting specified here in the file. Once the file's open, move to the bottom right and press the o key to add a new line. The new line will be where we add the shared mount. We enter the filename /dev/sda2, then add the directory where we want to map /mnt/shared.

There are a few more settings we need to add to that line. Tab after the mount folder, and specify the file system we'll use—in my case, it's ext4. Press Tab again and type defaults. This means using the default options for mounting, which include reading and writing to the mount.

After another tab, we enter a 1, then a space, and then a 2. This one specifies that the file system can be dumped. If you have a zero, the file system isn't allowed to be dumped. The 2 specifies the order in which the file systems should be checked whenever the system boots up. We'll then save changes to the file. Because of the entries we've added to the fstab file, that partition will automatically be mounted in the directories whenever the system boots.

Summary 05:15-05:41
That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about how to mount a Linux file system. We talked about mounting file systems from the command-line. We talked about unmounting file systems from the command-line. Then we ended the demonstration by talking about how to add an entry to the fstab file to make the mounting persistent across reboots.
