---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 8.8 Disk Quotas
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the difference between a soft block limit and hard block limit?</li>
<li>What is the difference between block quotas and inode quotas?</li>
<li>What tool do you use to create the aquota.user and aquota.group files in the file system?</li>
<li>How would you generate a quota report to display how much space is used by users on the system?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Determine disk free space</li>
<li>Determine the directory size</li>
<li>Find the user quota</li>
<li>Generate a quota report</li>
<li>Turn quotas on and off</li>
<li>Edit quotas</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead><tr><th>Term</th>
<th>Definition</th></tr></thead>
<tbody><tr><td>Disk quota</td>
<td>Prevents a user or group from using a disproportionate amount of disk space on a volume.</td></tr>
</tbody></table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Exam</th>
  <th>Objective</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
  <td>
    2.2 Manage the file system
    <ul>
      <li>Implement disk quotas</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
  <td>
    4.4 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot user access and
    file permissions
    <ul>
      <li>Quota issues</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 8.8.1 Disk Quotas

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Disk Quotas 00:00-00:53
In this lesson, we'll talk about disk quotas. If you have a multi-user Linux system, it's possible to have a user consume most of the disk space. You can use disk quotas to establish user space limitations and limitations on file count ownership.

A quota package must be installed before implementing quotas. Some distributions install this package as part of their base installation—most don't. You can use the appropriate package manager utility for your distribution to see if the quota package is already on your system. If not, you can use rpm, dpkg, yum, zypper, or apt/apt-get to install it.

Once installed, you can start establishing quotas. Let's look at the process.

Establishing Quotas 00:53-02:41
First, go into the fstab file in the /etc directory. Open it in a text editor and add the usrquota and grpquota parameters to the mount options.

Next, restart the system so the parameters will take effect when the fstab is reread. Now, create the quota files by entering quotacheck plus the -a, -m, -v, -u, and -g options. The quota check utility will scan the file system, establish the current disk usage, and create quota files. The -a option specifies scanning all mounted file systems. The -m option forces a check of mounted file systems. The -u option checks users. The -g option checks groups and the -v option sets it to verbose mode. When the quota check command is complete, you'll see two files created at the mount point of the device, aquota.group and aquota.user.

With those in place, you can now enable quotas on the file system. To do so, enter the quotaon command plus the -a and -v options. Once that runs, use the repquota -av command to view the current disk space consumption. This report shows disk space usage by each user. For example, this list shows the users' root, ksanders, tux, jsanders, and rtracy. And here, we see their disk space consumption and inode usage and then notice the columns labeled soft and hard. The zeros in these columns indicate that no quotas have been set. Let's change that.

Setting a Quota 02:41-03:35
To create a disk quota for a user, enter edquota -u followed by the username of the user. Here, we'll create a disk quota for the rtracy user. This will open the vi editor and load the quota file for the specified user. Then, we set the quotas for blocks and/or inodes. The numbers under these show how many blocks or inodes have been used. What we're more concerned about is setting the hard and soft parameters. So, we'll replace the zeros with a number for soft and hard quota blocks and soft and hard quota inodes.

The soft quotas mean that there's a grace period for exceeding the set number. Hard quotas can't be exceeded. The block quotas establish the amount of allowed disk space for the user. The inode quotas specify the number of files a user is allowed to own.

Copying Quotas 03:35-03:50
Setting quotas for each user could be time-consuming. If the block and inode quotas you want to set are the same for multiple users, you can use the edquota -p command to copy these same quotas from one user to another to save time.

Group Quotas 03:50-04:14
Another option is to establish quotas for groups instead of individual users. Just put the users with similar quota requirements in a group, then use this command edquota -g group name. This applies the quotas to all the group members. Quotas for groups have this same interface, except you'd have a group name here instead of a username.

Grace Period 04:14-04:58
Now, let's talk about managing the grace period, which is the time the user is allowed to exceed the soft quota limit. The default is a maximum of seven days. You can change the grace period length by running the edquota -t command. This gives you this interface where you can specify the length you want.

You can check the new quotas by running the repquota -av command again. This time the output has changed. Notice that the rtracy user now has a soft and hard limit set for block usage and a soft and hard limit set for inode usage. The rtracy user now has quotas set on the /dev/sd3 file system.

Summary 04:58-05:17
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we talked about setting up quotas for users and groups. Then we discussed setting soft and hard quota limits. We also talked about setting quotas for block usage and inode usage.

## 8.8.2 Manage Quotas

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Manage Quotas 00:00-00:35
In this demo, we're going to practice managing quotas. I have the /mnt/shared directory on this system. This directory has been shared to allow many users to share files with each other.

This directory has its own partition and file system. As you can see, /dev/sdb1 is mounted in /mnt/shared. Since this is a shared directory, we want to establish quotas on this file system to make sure no one uses more space than they should.

Verify Quota Package Installation 00:35-00:54
Let's first verify that the quota package has been installed. Run sudo rpm -qi quota or sudo apt list --installed quota, depending on your Linux distribution.

Enable Quotas 00:54-02:21
To configure quotas, we need to enable quotas for the desired file system. This is done by editing the file system's mount options, saved in the /etc/fstab file. Use a text editor to edit the mount options for the /dev/sdb1 file system. To enable quotas, we need to add additional mount options. For this example, we want to enable both user and group quotas.

To enable user quotas, you need to add a comma, and then usrjquota=aquota.user. The j stands for journaled quotas. After the equal sign, we specify the name of the file that will contain our quota limits, in this case that's aquota.user.

To add quotas for the group, we enter this similar command: grpjquota=aquota.group. The last change we need to add is to specify the format that we will use for our quotas by adding jqfmt=vfsv0. Save the changes and write to file.

It's always a good idea to doublecheck your syntax. Depending on which file system you're adding quotas to, if entered incorrectly the file system may not mount. This is especially critical if you are working with the root file system. If the root file system does not mount, you will have issues accessing the hard drive.

Remount Partitions 02:21-03:02
These new mount options will not be applied until the next time that partition is mounted in the file system. To remount the partitions, we can reboot the system, or we can tell the kernel to remount just that file system.

Remounting is faster. Enter mount -o remount followed by the name of the file system that we want to remount, which is /mnt/shared. To verify that these options were applied correctly, let's run the mount command. The options we specified are being used. We see that /dev/sdb1 is mounted in /mnt/shared, and our quota options have been applied.

Create Quota Files 03:02-03:56
The quota files need to be created. An easy way to do that is run the quotacheck command with the -avmug options. The -a option specifies that all file systems that have quotas enabled should be checked. -v says operate in verbose mode so that we can see exactly what's going in the output of the command. -m tells the command to check file systems even if they're currently mounted in the file system. -u checks for users. And -g checks for groups. Press Enter, and the results are displayed.

Error messages are displayed because the two new quota files that we specified in our mount options do not exist, so the quota check command had to create them. To verify that the quota files were created, let's type ls /mnt/shared. And we see that we now have aquota.group, and aquota.user quota files.

Enable Quotas 03:56-05:05
We are ready to enable quotas on the file system. This is done by running quotaon -av. Group quotas and user quotas were turned on for the /dev/sdb1 file system, which is mounted in /mnt/shared M N T. For this command, the -a option tells the command to turn on quotas for all autoloading filesystem in the /etc/fstab file and the -v option tells the command to print out verbose information.

We can generate a quota report which will tell us how much space and how many files have been created by each user. This is done by running the repquota command, and we'll use the -av options again.

When we press Enter, we see that there are two users that currently own files in /dev/shared the root user and the rtracy user. Currently the root user has used 84 blocks and the rtracy user has used 304. Root owns 11 files, while rtracy owns 2. We see the block and file limits are set to 0 in the output of the command, meaning none have been set up.

Set User Quotas 05:05-06:34
Let's set quotas for the rtracy user. Type edquota and then -u to specify the user that we want to set quotas for, the rtracy user. Press the Insert key twice to enter replace mode. The only file system with quotas enabled is /dev/sdb1. Under blocks, we specify how much disk space the user can use by limiting the number of blocks that they can consume for their files.

Over here under inodes, we limit the number of files that they can create within this file system. We have hard and soft limits that we can define. A soft limit is one that the user is allowed to exceed temporarily. By default, this is 7 days. We can also specify a hard limit that the user is not allowed to ever exceed. Let's go ahead and set up block limits for the rtracy user account, by changing its soft limit to 10000 and its hard limit to 15000.

We also want to limit the number of files that this user can create, using the inode's soft and hard limits. Change the inodes soft limit to 800 files and the hard limit to 1000. Be aware that these are very small limits being used for demonstration purposes.

Save the changes and exit the editor. To see these new limits, we run the repquota command again, and see the limits that have now been set. The root user still does not have any limits. Meaning, that root can create as many files as needed.

Set Grace Days 06:34-07:11
We can see that the grace time is currently set to 7 days for both inodes and for blocks. This is the amount of time that's applied to both soft limits. If needed, we can change this to any value.

Use the edquota command again, but this time we'll use the -t option, which tells the command to let us set the time limits. We specify the grace period that we used for blocks to 5, and let's also change the inodes to 5 as well, and exit the editor to save our changes. Run the repquota command again. We see that the grace time has been set to 5 for both inodes and blocks.

Set Group Quotas 07:11-07:48
In addition to setting limits for users, we can also set limits for groups. On this system, I want to create limits for any users who are members of the group named users. Like before, run edquota again, but this time use -g for groups, and then the name of the group, users.

Group quotas are configured the same way as users. Change the soft block limit to 15000, and a hard block limit of 20000. Then a soft inodes limit to 1000, and a hard inodes limit to 1500. Let's exit the editor to save our changes.

Test Quotas 07:48-08:40
We can run a test to see if the quotas are working. We set a very small file space usage limit for the rtracy user, so we will test that. First, I'll exit out of the root user account, and then as rtracy I'll create a very big file in /mnt/shared, containing just junk. To do this, I'll use dd copy and convert command.

We are using the dd command to take a bunch of junk data from the /dev/zero file and we're writing it to the bigfile.bin file. We'll keep doing it 100,000 times, which will create a very large file in /mnt/shared.

When I press Enter, it started creating the file, but then hit an error. Since we exceeded rtracy's disk space quota, the user was blocked, or prevented from creating a file that would exceed his hard limit size.

Summary 08:40-08:52
Okay, great! In this demonstration, we talked about establishing quotas in the Linux file system.

## 8.8.3 Quota Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Disk quota overview</li>
<li>Implement disk quotas</li>
<li>Disk quota commands</li></ul>

### Disk Quota Overview

Disk quotas prevent a user or group from using a disproportionate amount of disk space on a volume. You can configure quotas to:

<ul><li>Limit the number of files and directories a user or group can create.</li>
<li>Limit the amount of disk space a user or group can use.</li></ul>

Quota types include the following:

<ul><li>A soft limit, which allows a user to temporarily exceed a quota limit.</li>
<li>A hard limit, which is a fixed limit that a user cannot exceed.</li></ul>

### Implement Disk Quotas

The following table lists the general steps to implement disk quotas:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Step</th>
  <th>Procedure</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Install the quota package</td>
  <td>
    Use <b>yum</b> , <b>zypper</b> , or <b>apt-get</b> to install the
    quota package on the system where you want to set the quota
    limits.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Edit the mount options in <b>/etc/fstab</b></td>
  <td>
    Edit the <b>/etc/fstab</b> file to add the mount options for the
    file system and enable quotas.
    <ul>
      <li><b>usrquota</b> enables quotas for users.</li>
      <li><b>grpquota</b> enables quotas for groups.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Create the quota files</td>
  <td>
    Create the <b>aquota.user</b> and <b>aquota.group</b> files in the
    directory where the partition is mounted.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Enable the quotas and view a quota report</td>
  <td>
    Enable disk quotas and then generate a disk usage and quota
    report. The report shows:
    <ul>
      <li>How much space to allocate to each user.</li>
      <li>How much space is currently consumed by each user.</li>
      <li>
        Whether some users are using a significant amount of disk
        space.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Edit the quotas</td>
  <td>
    Edit a quota for the specified user or group. Be aware of the
    following when editing quotas:
    <ul>
      <li>
        Set the soft and hard quotas for blocks. This limits the total
        amount of disk space per user or group.
      </li>
      <li>
        Set the hard and soft quotas for inodes. This limits the total
        number of files and directories per user or group.
      </li>
      <li>
        Users may exceed soft quotas for the number of days specified
        in the grace period (seven by default). When the grace period
        expires, users can't create additional files.
      </li>
      <li>Users cannot exceed hard quotas.</li>
      <li>
        When setting block quotas, 1,000 blocks is about 1 MB, and
        1,000,000 blocks is about 1 GB.
      </li>
      <li>Setting the quota limits to 0 removes all quotas.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Disk Quota Commands

The table below describes common commands for working with quotas.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Command</th>
  <th>Function</th>
  <th>Examples</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td><b>quotacheck -mavug</b></td>
  <td>
    Creates the aquota.user and aquota.group files in the file system
    (after placing the quota entries in <b>/etc/fstab</b> ). Consider
    the common options below.
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>-m</b> updates the quota database even if other processes
        are running on the file system.
      </li>
      <li><b>-a</b> updates the quota database.</li>
      <li><b>-v</b> runs the command in Verbose Mode.</li>
      <li>
        <b>-u</b> and <b>-g</b> run the database updates for users and
        groups, respectively.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>quotacheck -mavug /home</b> creates the aquota.user and
    aquota.group files in the root (/) directory.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>quotaon</b></td>
  <td>
    Enables quotas for the mounted file system. Consider the common
    options below.
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>-a</b> enables all mounted file systems listed in
        /etc/mtab.
      </li>
      <li><b>-v</b> runs the command in Verbose Mode.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>quotaon -av /</b> enables quotas for the root (/) directory.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>quotaoff</b></td>
  <td>Disables quotas for the mounted file system.</td>
  <td>
    <b>quotaoff /home</b> disables quotas for the /home directory.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>repquota</b></td>
  <td>
    Displays a summary of the disc usage and quotas for the specified
    file systems, including the specific number of files and space by
    user. Consider the common options below.
    <ul>
      <li>
        <b>-v</b> reports all quotas, even if there is no usage.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-n</b> does not resolve user and group names to speed
        printing time.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-u</b> and <b>-g</b> give reports for users and groups,
        respectively.
      </li>
      <li>
        <b>-a</b> gives information for all file systems listed in
        /etc/mtab.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>repquota /home -uv</b> creates a user quota report for the
    /home directory.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>edquota</b></td>
  <td>
    Opens and edits a user's quota, a group's quota, or changes the
    grace period. Consider the common options below.
    <ul>
      <li><b>-u</b> changes a user's quota.</li>
      <li><b>-g</b> changes a group's quota.</li>
      <li><b>-t</b> changes the grace period.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>edquota -u</b> <b>mtomm</b> opens the quota file for the
    <i >mtomm</i> user account.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>quota</b></td>
  <td>
    Displays the current user's or group's quota. Consider the common
    options below.
    <ul>
      <li><b>-u</b> shows the current user's quota.</li>
      <li><b>-g</b> shows the current group's quota.</li>
      <li>
        <b>-v</b> shows current usage (the hard and soft quota for
        blocks and inodes).
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>quota</b> displays the quota report for the current user
    account only.
    <b><br />quota -u dhanson</b>
    displays the quota report for the
    <i >dhanson</i> user account only.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
