---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 0.1 Course Introduction
description: some description
---

This course is designed to prepare you to pass the TestOut Linux Pro and CompTIA Linux+ Certifications.

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What are the course prerequisites?</li>
<li>Which major topics are covered in the course?</li>
<li>Which certifications does this course prepare you for?</li></ul>

### Course Prerequisites

Before you take this course, you should have a basic understanding of computers. You should have:

<ul><li>Computer systems and networking knowledge</li>
<li>9 to 12 months IT experience</li></ul>

Although not a prerequisite, it's helpful if you've had some basic Linux exposure in both command line and GUI environments.

It's also helpful to have some additional certifications. Optional certifications could include the:

<ul><li>TestOut PC Pro Certification</li>
<li>TestOut Network Pro Certification</li></ul>

If you don't have this knowledge and experience, you can still take the course. Just be prepared to have a slightly steeper learning curve.

### TestOut Linux Pro Certification

The TestOut Linux Pro Certification is part of the TestOut Pro Certification. This certification measures not only what you know, but also what you can do. It measures your ability to install, configure, manage, and troubleshoot the Linux operating system.

The TestOut Linux Pro Certification addresses the following knowledge domains:

<ul><li>System administration and configuration</li>
   <li>Storage and file system management</li>
   <li>Networking and printing</li>
<li>Security and access control</li></ul>

### CompTIA Linux+ Certification

The CompTIA Linux+ Certification validates the competency required for system administrators to manage and maintain Linux, including an essential knowledge of the command line interface.

The CompTIA Linux+ Certification addresses the following knowledge domains:

<ul><li>Hardware and system configuration</li>
   <li>Systems operation and maintenance</li>
   <li>Security</li>
   <li>Linux troubleshooting and diagnostics</li>
<li>Automation and scripting</li></ul>

### Real-World Skills

In addition to covering things you need to know to become certified, this course is designed to help you gain real-world skills that you'll use every day as a Linux technician. By the time you complete this course, you should be able to do the following:

<ul><li>Install a new Linux system</li>
   <li>Install software on a Linux system</li>
   <li>Create and manage Linux users and group</li>
   <li>Install and manage Linux storage devices and file systems</li>
   <li>Monitor Linux systems</li>
   <li>Set up and manage Linux networks, including configuring routers and 
	firewalls</li>
   <li>Install and manage Linux systems in the cloud and in virtualized 
	environments</li>
   <li>Understand the basics of scripting and automation</li>
   <li>Manage security, including network and VPN security</li>
<li>Troubleshoot various aspects of Linux, including users, storage, networking, and SELinux</li></ul>

## 0.1.1 Linux Pro Introduction

### Linux Pro Introduction 00:00-00:21

Welcome to TestOut's Linux Pro course. This course prepares you to enter an IT career involving Linux. You will gain the knowledge and skills you need to install, configure, operate, and troubleshoot the Linux operating system. It also prepares you for Linux-related IT certifications, such as the CompTIA Linux+ exam.

### Course Prerequisites 00:21-00:57

To be successful in this course, you need certain prerequisite skills and base knowledge.

First, we recommend that you have a solid understanding of computer systems, including computer hardware and general operating system concepts. You also need a basic understanding of networks and how computers communicate within a local network and over the internet. If you don't have this knowledge, you may wish to complete the TestOut PC Pro course and the TestOut Network Pro course. Additionally, 9 to 12 months experience in an IT-related job will be helpful. If you don't have this knowledge and experience, you can still take this course. Just be prepared to have a slightly steeper learning curve.

### Course Topics 00:57-01:47

Now let's spend a few minutes talking about what you're going to learn in this course. We'll begin with an overview of the Linux operating system, including its history and major distributions.

Then we'll cover some Linux basics. We'll present the Linux shell, how to get help, basic text editors, and the Linux file system. This foundational knowledge will help you understand Linux installation, localization, boot-up, and shutdown.

There are different Linux distributions and GUI desktops. We'll cover these and then turn to Linux management topics: how to install software applications, manage users, set up the file management system, and add hardware.

Next, we'll describe some topics that are internal to Linux including processes, system services, system monitoring, and networking.

We complete our course by covering Linux cloud and virtualization technologies, scripting, automation, and security.

### Certifications 01:47-02:34

So, with that in mind, let's talk about the certification aspect of this course. It's very important that you understand that certification is essential for a career in the IT industry.

Certification is so important because it gives potential employers information they need when making hiring decisions. Basically, having certifications gives you a critical boost during the application and interview process.

This course meets the specifications of two different industry certification programs. First, TestOut's Linux Pro certification exam, which is part of TestOut's IT certification program. One of the key values of Linux Pro certification is that it measures not just what you know, but what you can do.

In addition to TestOut's Linux Pro exam, this course also prepares you for the CompTIA Linux+ certification exam.

### Summary 02:34-02:50

In this video, we introduced the goals and purposes of this course. We talked about the prerequisites for this course, and we introduced its associated certification programs. Now let's start learning about Linux.

## 0.1.2 Basic Linux File Management

As a Linux administrator, much of your work is done from a command line interface. If you are new to Linux, you may find it difficult to navigate the file system and make changes to text files. To help you make a quick transition to Linux, and to help you be successful in this course, this lesson introduces a few basic command line interface pointers.

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Linux file system basics</li>
   <li>Create, copy, and move a Linux directory</li>
   <li>Remove a Linux directory</li>
   <li>File management commands</li>
<li>The vi editor</li></ul>

### Linux File System Basics

The container that holds Linux files is called a directory. The following rules apply to files and directories:

<ul><li>File and directory names are case sensitive. The filenames testout.txt, TestOut.txt, and TESTOUT.txt are three different
    files.</li>
   <li>File and directory names can be made up of upper and lowercase letters, numbers, the dot (.), and underscore (_)
    symbols.</li>
   <li>The dot (.) in a filename is not necessary. However, it can be helpful to use a dot based filename extension to identify
    file type.</li>
   <li>A directory can hold files and other directories.</li>
   <li>Linux directories are arranged hierarchically as parent and child directories.</li>
   <li>The root directory does not have a parent directory and is represented by a single forward slash (/).</li>
   <li>The forward slash is also used as a delimiter when showing the directory path from the root directory to a file or
directory. For example: /home/rtracy/bin/myaddresses.dat.</li></ul>

The following table describes basic commands you use to navigate within a Linux directory.

<table id="table1">
   <thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Command</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Examples</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">pwd</b></td>
    <td>Displays the current working directory.</td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li>If a user named Fred is currently in his home directory and types <b class="fw-bold">pwd</b> at the shell prompt, <b class="fw-bold">/home/Fred</b> is displayed.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">cd</b></td>
    <td>Changes the present working directory.
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">cd ..</b> changes to the parent directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">cd ../..</b> changes two levels up in the directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">cd /</b> changes to the root directory.</li></ul></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">cd directory1</b> changes to a directory named <b class="fw-bold">directory1</b> within the current working directory. (This is a <i class="fs-italicize">relative</i> path.)</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">cd /home/Fred/directory1</b> switches to <b class="fw-bold">directory1</b> in Fred's home directory, regardless of the current
          working directory. (This is an absolute path.)</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">ls</b></td>
    <td>Displays the contents of a directory. Options include:
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">-a</b> displays all directory contents, including hidden content.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-l</b> displays extended information, including the owner, modified date, size, and permissions.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-R</b> displays the contents of a directory and all of its subdirectories.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-d</b> displays directories but not files.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-r</b> reverses the sort order.</li></ul></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">ls -al</b> displays a long listing of all the contents in the current working directory, including hidden
          content.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">ls -d</b> displays only directories within the current directory.</li>
<li><b class="fw-bold">ls -R /etc</b> displays the contents of the /etc directory and all of its subdirectories.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Create, Copy, and Move a Linux Directory

The following table describes basic commands you use to manage a Linux directory:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Command</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Examples</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">mkdir</b></td>
    <td>Creates a new directory. Use the <b class="fw-bold">-p</b> option to create all directories within the specified path
      when that path does not already exist.</td>
    <td><ul><li><b class="fw-bold">mkdir work_files</b> creates a directory named <i class="fs-italicize">work_files</i> in the current working directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">mkdir /home/Fred/work_files</b> creates a directory named <i class="fs-italicize">work_files</i> within the specified path.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">cp</b></td>
    <td>Copies directories. Copying leaves the source contents (directories and files) intact. Use the
     <strong class="fw-bold">-r</strong>
     or -R option to recursively copy subdirectories and files within the directory.</td>
    <td><ul><li><b class="fw-bold">cp -r /temp /home/user</b> copies the entire <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory (with all of its files, subdirectories, and
          files in the subdirectories) to the <b class="fw-bold">/home/user</b> directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">mv</b></td>
    <td>Moves or renames directories (and files). Moving directories removes the source directory and places it in the destination.
        Options include:
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">-f</b> overwrites a directory that already exist in the destination directory without prompting.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-i</b> prompts before overwriting a directory in the destination directory.</li>
    <li><b class="fw-bold">-n</b> never overwrites files in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
<td><ul><li><b class="fw-bold">mv /temp/station ~/doc/</b> moves <b class="fw-bold">station</b> from the <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory to the <b class="fw-bold">~/doc</b> directory.</li>
<li><strong class="fw-bold">mv /current /previous</strong>renames the directory
<strong class="fw-bold">current</strong>to
<strong class="fw-bold">previous</strong></li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Remove a Linux Directory

The following table describes basic commands you use to remove a Linux directory:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Command</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Description</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Examples</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">rmdir</b></td>
    <td>Deletes an empty directory.</td>
    <td><ul><li><b class="fw-bold">rmdir ~/Fred/work_files</b> deletes the <b class="fw-bold">work_files</b> directory if it is empty.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">rm</b></td>
    <td valign="top">
     Removes the directory and file information from the file system, making the directories and files inaccessible.
        Options include:
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">-i</b> prompts before removing.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-r</b> removes directories, subdirectories, and files within them.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-f</b> eliminates prompt for read-only files and avoids an exit code error if a file doesn't exist.</li></ul></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">rm -rf /home/user/temp</b> deletes the temp directory with all its subdirectories and files without
          prompting.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">rm -r /home/user/*</b> deletes all directories and files in the <b class="fw-bold">/home/user</b> directory.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

### File Management Commands

The following table describes Linux commands that can be used to manage files.

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Command</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Function</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Examples</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">touch</b></td>
    <td valign="top">
     If the file does not exist, <b class="fw-bold">touch</b> creates a blank version of the file. If the file does exist,
      this command updates the file's modification and last accessed time.</td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">touch myfile</b> makes a blank file named <b class="fw-bold">myfile</b> .</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">cp</b></td>
    <td valign="top">
     Copies files. Copying leaves the source file intact.
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">-f</b> overwrites files that already exist in the destination directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-i</b> prompts before overwriting a file in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">cp /temp/document_ab.txt ~/doc/document.txt</b> copies <b class="fw-bold">document_ab.txt</b> from the <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory to
          the <b class="fw-bold">~/doc</b> directory and renames the file to <b class="fw-bold">document.txt</b> .</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">cp /temp/*.txt ~/doc</b> copies all text files from the <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory to the <b class="fw-bold">~/doc</b> directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">mv</b></td>
    <td valign="top">
     Moves or renames files (and directories). Moving files erases the source file and moves it to the destination.
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">-f</b> overwrites files that already exist in the destination directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-i</b> prompts before overwriting a file in the destination directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">-n</b> never overwrites files in the destination directory.</li></ul></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">mv /temp/document.txt ~/doc/document.txt</b> moves <b class="fw-bold">document.txt</b> from the <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory to the <b class="fw-bold">~/doc</b> directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">mv /temp/*.txt ~/doc/*.txt</b> copies all text files from the <b class="fw-bold">/temp</b> directory to the <b class="fw-bold">~/doc</b> directory.</li></ul></td></tr>
   <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">rm</b></td>
    <td valign="top">
     Removes a file or directory. Use the <b class="fw-bold">-f</b> option to delete with a prompt.
     <div class="info" data-block="
      The <b>rm</b> command deletes a file or directory's inode, but it 
			does not actually delete the data. To permanently
          remove data, use the <b>shred</b> command."><div class="to-info-box"><div class="to-info-box-body"><span class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info " role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></span><div class="to-info-box-body-content"><span>
      The <b>rm</b> command deletes a file or directory's inode, but it 
			does not actually delete the data. To permanently
          remove data, use the <b>shred</b> command.</span></div></div></div></div></td>
    <td valign="top">
     <ul><li><b class="fw-bold">rm myfile</b> deletes a file in the current directory named <b class="fw-bold">myfile</b> .</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">rm /home/user/myfile</b> deletes <b class="fw-bold">myfile</b> from the <b class="fw-bold">/home/user</b> directory regardless of the current
          directory.</li>
      <li><b class="fw-bold">rm -f /home/user/temp/*</b> deletes all files in the temp directory with prompts.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
    
### The nano Editor
The nano editor is included in most Linux distributions.

<ul><li>To start the editor, type <b class="fw-bold">nano</b> at the shell prompt.</li>
   <li>The nano editor is simpler to use than the vi editor.
    <ul><li>Common keystroke shortcuts are listed at the bottom of the nano
            interface.
      <ul><li>A caret (^) in the shortcut means press and hold the Ctrl key.</li>
       <li>'M-' listed in the shortcut means press and hold the Meta key.
                On modern keyboards, the Alt or Esc key is substituted for the
                Meta key.</li></ul></li>
     <li>Ctrl+G (listed as ^G) displays the full help text, which includes
            a full list of shortcuts.</li>
     <li>Prompts are displayed when user input is needed.</li>
     <li>The Home, End, PgUp, PgDn, and arrow keys move the cursor in the
            same way as other common editors.</li></ul></li></ul>

The table below lists some common nano shortcuts:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Shortcut</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Function</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td>^G
      <br>
      (Ctrl+G)</td>
     <td>Displays the help text, which includes a list of
            all keyboard shortcuts.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>^X
      <br>
      (Ctrl+X)</td>
     <td>Closes the current buffer or exits from nano.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>^O
      <br>
      (Ctrl+O)</td>
     <td>Writes the current buffer (or the marked region)
            to disk.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>M-Space
      <br>
      (Alt+Space or
      <br>
      Esc+Space)</td>
     <td>Goes back one word.
      <br></td></tr>
    <tr><td>^Space
      <br>
      (Ctrl+Space)</td>
     <td>Goes forward one word.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>M-A
      <br>
      (Alt+A or Esc+A)</td>
     <td>Marks text starting from the cursor position.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>M-6
      <br>
      (Alt+6 or Esc+6)</td>
     <td>Copies current line (or marked region) and stores
            it in cutbuffer.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>`^K`
      <br>
      (Ctrl+K)</td>
     <td>Cuts current line (or marked region) and stores it
            in cutbuffer.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>`^U`
      <br>
      (Ctrl+U)</td>
     <td>Uncuts (paste) from the cutbuffer into the current
            line.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>`^W`
      <br>
      (Ctrl+W)</td>
     <td>Searches forward for a string or a regular
            expression.</td></tr>
    <tr><td>`^\`
      <br>
      (Ctrl+\)</td>
     <td>Replaces a string or a regular expression.</td></tr></tbody></table>

### The vi Editor

The vi editor is a utility that creates and modifies text files. It is the defacto command line text editor included with most Linux distributions.

The vi editor uses the following operational modes:

<ul><li>Command mode is the initial mode vi uses when started. It provides commands that can cut and replace text. It is also the
    mode from which you access the other vi modes.</li>
   <li>Command line mode is used to load files, and to save files after editing them in the file system.</li>
   <li>Edit mode is the mode that vi uses to write and edit text in the file. It has two operation modes:
    <ul><li>Insert mode adds text between the preceding and subsequent text.</li>
     <li>Replace mode overwrites subsequent text.</li></ul></li></ul>

The table below lists some of the most common vi commands:

<table><thead><tr><th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Command</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Function</th>
    <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">
     Mode</th></tr></thead>
   <tbody><tr><td><b class="fw-bold">vi</b></td>
     <td>Starts vi. Type the command at the shell prompt.</td>
     <td>N/A</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">vi</b> <b class="fw-bold">[file_name]</b></td>
     <td>Starts vi and immediately begins working on the named file (either a new file or an existing file).
        Type the <b class="fw-bold">vi</b> command at the shell prompt.</td>
     <td>N/A</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">Insert</b> key
      <br> <b class="fw-bold">i
       <br>
       s</b></td>
     <td>Enters insert mode from command mode.</td>
     <td>Command</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">Esc</b> key</td>
     <td>Enters command mode from edit mode.</td>
     <td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">Delete</b> key</td>
     <td>Deletes text.</td>
     <td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">Insert</b> key</td>
     <td>Toggles between the insert and replace modes while in edit mode.</td>
     <td>Insert/Replace</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">z</b></td>
     <td>Exits without saving.</td>
     <td>Command</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">:</b></td>
     <td>Enters command line mode from command mode.</td>
     <td>Command</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">w</b></td>
     <td>Saves the current document.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">w</b> <b class="fw-bold">[file_name]</b></td>
     <td>Names and saves the file.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">w![file_name]</b></td>
     <td>Overwrites the file.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">q</b></td>
     <td>Exits vi. This produces an error if the text was modified.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">q!</b></td>
     <td>Exits vi without saving.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr>
    <tr><td><b class="fw-bold">wq</b> or <b class="fw-bold">exit</b></td>
     <td>Saves the document and exits vi.</td>
     <td>Command line</td></tr></tbody></table>
