---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 0.2 The TestOut Lab Simulator
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>How do you open the lab interface?</li>
    <li>How do you type commands in the terminal window?</li>
    <li>How do you navigate to different servers in the lab interface?</li>
<li>How do you maximize the main window?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Open the lab interface</li>
    <li>Type commands in a terminal window</li>
    <li>Navigate to other Linux computers in the lab interface</li>
    <li>Answer questions found in the lab interface</li>
<li>Score a lab and review the lab report</li></ul>

## 0.2.1 Use the Lab Simulator

### Use the Lab Simulator 00:00-00:12

One of the key components of your TestOut training is the lab activities. In this demonstration, I'll show you the lab simulator and how it is used.

### Use the Lab Simulator 00:12-00:32

In LabSim, click Start Lab to open the lab interface. On the left, is the scenario. It explains the tasks you must perform to successfully complete the lab. It may also have supplemental information you might need to complete the tasks.

You can click here to minimize the scenario pane. Click here to maximize it.

### Main Window 00:32-00:53

I'll minimize the scenario to maximize our main window. The main window is where you do most of your lab work.

Some labs include a diagram or picture. Click Exhibits to see them.

Most of the Linux labs start on a particular system. We'll get to that in a moment. However, this lab requires you to access multiple computers. These computers can be seen in this floor overview.

### Linux Terminal Window 00:53-01:46

In each room, you can select a computer. This takes you to the computer's desktop. From the desktop, you can perform the tasks needed to complete the lab, just as you would with any Linux computer. For example, you can open the Terminal and type the required commands, such as pwd or whoami.

To get back to the floor overview, you select the link shown in the TestOut menu bar.

Some labs may require you to access non-Linux systems, such as a Windows Server. As with the Linux computers, when you access a Windows system, you are taken to that computer's desktop and can perform the tasks required.

Let's go back to the floor overview.

From this view, you'll also notice that each room also has a hardware option. If needed, you can use this option to see the hardware for the computers in the room selected and see such things as how they are connected to the network.

Clicking the screen of the desired computer takes you back to that computer's desktop.

### Lab Report 01:46-02:37

Let's look again at the top menu.

You've already seen how to return to the floor view, and how to show exhibits.

If you make a mistake or want to start again, you can select the Start Over icon.

When you think you've completed all the lab tasks, click Score Lab. But before you do, be sure you are finished. Once you've selected this option, you won't be able to return to the lab except by opening it again from LabSim.

When you click Score Lab, you see the Lab Report window. It shows you the tasks you have successfully completed as well as those you may have missed. Green check marks indicate a passing score, while a red X indicates a missed task.

At the bottom, there is an explanation with detailed steps on how to complete the lab. If you were unable to complete one or more of the tasks successfully, you'll want to study these steps before you reattempt the lab.

Click the X in the upper right to return to LabSim.

### Lab Questions 02:37-03:28

Before we end this demo, you should also be aware that some labs will include questions that must be answered correctly to receive a passing score. To see this, let's switch to a different lab.

Here you see, that in the scenario, you are told there are questions to be answered. When you are ready to answer a question, select the Answer Questions button in the top right. Read each question carefully and then select or enter the correct answers.

If needed, the question dialog can be moved and minimized.

When a lab includes questions, notice that the End Lab button we saw earlier is gone. This means, that to end this type of lab, you must open the Answer Questions dialog and then select Score Lab.

If you have forgotten to answer a question, you are given the option to go back and answer the questions.

Once you have scored the lab, you are again shown the Lab Report where you are shown the tasks you have successfully completed as well as those you may have missed.

### Summary 03:28-03:50

That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we talked about the lab interface.

We showed you the scenario window and how to view exhibits, navigate to different computers, and how to enter commands in a Linux terminal window. We also showed you how to answer questions, how to restart a lab, and how to score the lab.
