---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 15.3 Login Blocking
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>Which command displays all active users on a Linux system?</li>
<li>Which utility should you use to remove active users?</li>
<li>Which file configures login blocking?</li>
<li>How can you display a message to users when logins are blocked?</li>
<li>Which PAM module file configures login blocking?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Disable login</li></ul>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      4.1 Manage users and groups
      <ul>
        <li>Manage user access</li>
      </ul>
      <p>4.3 Monitor and manage system access</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Monitor logging</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      1.4 Given a scenario, configure and use the appropriate processes
      and services
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>Process management</li>
        <ul>
          <li>pkill</li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
      <p>
        2.1 Summarize the purpose and use of security best practices in a
        Linux environment
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Authentication</li>
        <ul>
          <li>Pluggable authentication modules (PAM)</li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
      <p>
        4.4 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot user access and
        file permissions
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>User login issues</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 15.3.1 Login Blocking

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Login Blocking 00:00-00:47
In this lesson, we're going to discuss login blocking. From time to time, you may need to completely disable all logins to a Linux system. For example, you might have a serious issue that needs to be resolved. So while you're trying to fix things, you just need to keep everybody out while you figure out what's going on.

To do this, two things need to happen. First, you need to log out all current users. You also need to prevent any new users from logging in. This gives you the window of time that you need to get things fixed. Be aware that the order you do things in might change. On a lightly used system, you can go ahead and just log everybody out and then block all logins. But on a heavily used system, you might need to do the opposite—first block all logins and then log out all current users.

Logging Off 00:47-01:26
Let's look at how you log everybody out of the system. The first thing is to find out who's currently logged in. A good way to get this information is to use the w command. It's super easy to remember. All you do is type w and hit Enter. When you do, a list of all the currently logged-in users pops up for you. On this system, I have two users right now. They're rtracy and ksanders. Let's log them both out.

Now, in an ideal situation, you should've just been able to contact them and ask them to log out, but that isn't always possible. Sometimes, users leave their systems logged in while they're away, or maybe they're in a meeting or something like that. That's when brute force logouts are necessary.

Use pkill 01:26-01:56
And that's where this next command comes in handy. It's called pkill, which stands for "process kill". The syntax is to enter pkill, and then you specify the signal you want to send, which is the kill signal—so enter -KILL. Then you specify which user you want logged out. In our case, we're going to force log out the ksanders user. It's not much more complicated than that. However, you also want to disable all future logins so that someone doesn't come back and try to log in to the system while you're busy trying to fix it.

Block Logins 01:56-02:18
Blocking logins on Linux is even easier. All you have to do is go to the /etc directory and create a new file called nologin. That's it. There doesn't even have to be any text in the file. As long as this file exists in /etc, nobody except for the root user is allowed to log in to the system. You can see in this example that all I did was run the touch command to create the file.

nologin Text Display 02:18-02:42
Here's a neat feature of the nologin file. If you decide to go ahead and put text in there—in the /etc directory, I mean—the text you enter will actually be displayed to the end user if they try to log in. In this example, I've put in some text that says, "The system will be down until 9:00 pm for maintenance." Now they've got a little more information about what's going on, and you're not going to stress anyone out or get angry messages telling you that the system is down.

Use PAM 02:42-03:44
The nologin file's functionality is configured in the /etc/pam.d/login file. The acronym PAM stands for pluggable authentication modules. Basically, what this does is allow any Linux system with PAM to use a variety of different authentication mechanisms. By default, it's set up to use a simple username and password, but you can reconfigure PAM for biometric logins or security certificates. That's why they call it "pluggable authentication", because it's plug and play. You can take different modules out and put new ones in.

In this example, we have our /etc/pam.d/login file. Right down here, there's a line that says, "Account required pam_nologin.so." Basically, this line is what tells PAM to check whether the file named nologin exists in the /etc directory. If it does, PAM only allows the root user on the system.

Once you're done, and you're ready to let people on again, you can re-enable logins by simply deleting or renaming the nologin file.

Re-enable Logins 03:44-03:59
For example, you could use the move command to rename nologin to nologin.back. This will tell PAM to allow people back on the system.

Okay, that's it for now. In this lesson, we discussed how to block user logins. First, we reviewed how you can identify who's currently logged in to the system.

Summary 03:59-04:18
Then we talked about how to force logged-on users out. We ended this lesson by discussing how you can prevent additional users from logging in using the /etc/nologin file.

## 15.3.2 Disable Login

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Disable Login 00:00-00:20
There may be times when you need to perform an administrative task on a Linux system, and that task requires everyone to be logged out and stay logged out while you perform work.

In this demonstration, we will walk through how to log users off and prevent them from logging back in until your work is done.

View Current Logins 00:20-00:45
To perform these steps, you must have root privileges, so I've already opened a terminal and switched to the root account.

First, we need to find who is currently logged into the system. We run the who command to find currently logged-in users.

We see there are currently three users logged into the system. The jsmith user—which is my user—that's running as root. The other two users, admin and zoey have logged in from a remote system.

Log Current Users Off System 00:45-02:28
To get the current logged-in users to log out, it's best if you first try to contact them and ask them to log out. This can be done using such methods as email, text, the Linux wall or write command, or calling them on the phone.

There may be times when that doesn't work. For example, you may be unable to contact them and need to forcefully log them off.

You should try a nice way first. If you forcefully log someone off, there's a good chance they may lose some important data.

Let's say that we cannot get a hold of Zoey. We need to get going on the required administrative tasks, so we're going to forcefully log off that session.

First, I have to find the process ID that's being used for Zoey's session.

Looking at the results of our who command, I can see that she is using an SSH connection, shown as pts/2.

To terminate Zoey's connection, I need to kill the session's parent process. To find this, I can run ps -u zoey. This will show all the processes she currently owns. I'll pipe the results out to grep and have it display only the processes that include pts/2. We see that her session's process ID is 3823.

Now that I know the correct process ID, I can use the kill command to end her session.

When using the kill command, it is best first to try to terminate the process using a gentle signal, such as the Hang UP or signal number 1. But if that doesn't work, you may have to use a more severe signal, such as kill signal number 9, which will forcefully terminate the process.

Let's run kill -9 3823.

When I run who again, we see that Zoey is no longer logged into this system.

Use /etc/nologin 02:28-03:38
Once everyone is logged off, we want to verify that users cannot log in again until after you have completed your tasks.

This can be done by creating a file in the /etc directory.

Let's cd into that directory.

To block any login attempts until the system is rebooted, create a file named nologin. This can be done using the command touch nologin.

That's it. All requests to log into your system will now be rejected until the file is deleted or you reboot your system, which will automatically delete the file for you.

If you want to be a little more user-friendly, we can add text to the file, which will be displayed when the user tries to log in.

Let's open our nologin file using the nano text editor.

Add a message that states, "The system is down for maintenance. Logins are disabled."

Save your changes and exit.

I'm going to switch to a different system and use ssh to try and log in as Zoey. Run ssh zoey@172.20.13.179 which is the IP address of the system we just configured.

When I press Enter, I'm prompted for the password. After, we see the message in our nologin file.

Summary 03:38-03:59
In this demonstration, we talked about disabling logins. We showed you how to find who is currently logged in to the system and how to find their process ID. We then showed how to log users out of a system using the kill command. We ended the demonstration by showing how to disable new logins until reboot.

## 15.3.3 Login Blocking Facts

Administrators can prevent users from logging in to a Linux system. This may be necessary while troubleshooting problems or while responding to a security event.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM)
- Login blocking process

### Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM)

#### `/etc/pam.d/login`

<ul>
  <li>
    Is a set of modules that enables various authentication systems on a
    Linux computer.
  </li>
  <li>
    Can employ modules concurrently. For example, one PAM can be used to
    enable biometric logins, while another enables standard user and
    password authentication.
  </li>
</ul>

#### `auth requisite pam_nologin.so`

<div class="to-info-box-body">
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
<div class="to-info-box-body-content">
  <span>
    On some distributions (such as Fedora), the /etc/pam.d/login file uses
    the syntax of auth required pam_nologin.so to enable login
    blocking.</span>
</div>
</div>

#### /etc/nologin

#### Login Blocking Process

The following list describes the tasks necessary to configure login blocking:

<ul>
<li>
  Force all users to log out of the system:
  <ol>
    <li>Log in directly as the root user.</li>
    <li>Use the <b>w</b> command to view all active user accounts.</li>
    <li>
      Use
      <b>pkill -KILL -u <i>user</i></b>
      to force the user to log out for each active user. If you know the
      parent processor ID, you can also use
      <b>kill - <i>processorID</i></b>
      <i>.</i>
    </li>
  </ol>
</li>
<li>
  Disable the ability to login to the system:
  <ol>
    <li>Create the <b>/etc/nologin</b> file.</li>
    <li>
      Add a message to the file that will be displayed to users when they
      attempt to log in.
    </li>
  </ol>
  <div>
    <div>
      <div>
        <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
        <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
          <span> Rename or delete this file to re-enable logins.</span>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</li>
</ul>
