---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 15.4 Network Security
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is a socket?</li>
<li>Which utility scans for all listening and non-listening sockets?</li>
<li>Which utility identifies open ports on a Linux system?</li>
<li>Which commands should you use to disable unneeded services?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Remove unneeded services and scan ports</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Port</td>
    <td>
      A logical entity that acts as a communication endpoint to identify a
      given application or process on a Linux operating system.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Access control list
      <br />
      (ACL)
    </td>
    <td>
      A permission set that provides a more flexible mechanism for file
      systems. An ACL is designed to assist with UNIX file permissions. It
      allows you to set permissions on any user or group for resource
      access.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      RPM Package Manager
      <br />
      (RPM)
    </td>
    <td>
      A popular utility for installing software on Unix-like systems,
      particularly Red Hat Linux.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      1.5 Use package management
      <ul>
        <li>Install, remove, and update packages with the rpm command</li>
        <li>Install, remove, and update RPM packages with DNF</li>
      </ul>
      <p>4.3 Monitor and manage system access</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Manage a host firewall</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      <p>1.6 Given a scenario, build and install software</p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Package management
          <ul>
            <li>DNF</li>
            <li>YUM</li>
            <li>RPM</li>
            <li>dpkg</li>
            <li>Zypp</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        2.1 Summarize the purpose and use of security best practices in a
        Linux environment
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Linux hardening</li>
        <ul>
          <li>Security Scanning</li>
          <li>Disabling/removing insecure services</li>
          <li>Configuring the host firewall</li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
      <p>2.3 Given a scenario, implement and configure firewalls</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Firewall use cases</li>
        <ul>
          <li>Open and closed ports</li>
        </ul>
        <li>Common firewall technologies</li>
        <ul>
          <li>firewalld</li>
          <li>iptables</li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
      <p>
        4.2 Given a scenario, analyze and troubleshoot network resource
        issues
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Testing remote systems
          <ul>
            <li>Nmap</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 15.4.1 Network Security

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Network Security 00:00-00:18
In this lesson we're going to discuss network security. We'll talk about how you can reduce your Linux system's exposure to network attacks. If your systems are connected to a network – especially a public network, then you should be concerned about network attacks.

Unload Unnecessary Services 00:18-01:10
One of the easiest steps you can take is to unload unnecessary services. Depending on how your distribution was installed, you probably have many services running on your system that you don't need – some of them you may not even know about.

You can view a list of installed services using the chkconfig command on an older init-based Linux distribution, or using the systemctl list-unit-files command on a newer system-based distribution.

When reviewing active services, be careful disabling a service until you know what it actually does. It's likely there are services that you don't recognize but are needed for the system to work properly. If you find a service you're not familiar with, do some research. Determine what the service is, what it does, and whether it's necessary for your system to function properly. If it's something that's necessary, leave it running. If it's not necessary, then you can shut it down.

Check Network Ports 01:10-02:19
In addition to checking for running services, you can also use nmap or netstat to view a list of open ports on a Linux system. Some open ports are necessary for the system to function. However, there may be other ports that are open and listening for connections that do not need to be there. Since every open port is a way for an attacker to access your system, you want to minimize that number to just what is necessary for the system to run and provide its network function.

To run nmap, we run nmap followed by the IP address. We would run nmap -sT to indicate the TCP protocol, followed by the IP address of the system we want to check. To scan for UDP we would use nmap -sU followed by the IP address. These commands will provide a list of all ports along with the state – open or closed – and also what service is using that port.

To disable a service, first shut down the service itself so it doesn't continue listening on that port. Then use the appropriate command – either chkconfig or systemctl to configure that service to not start automatically when the system boots up.

Viewing Open Ports with netstat 02:19-02:50
To use netstat to scan for open ports we would run netstat followed by the option we want to use. For example, -a lists all listening and non-listening sockets. -i displays statistics for your network. -l displays just the listening sockets, -s displays summary information for each protocol enabled on the system, and -r shows your routing table.

Some distributions use the ss command as netstat has been deprecated. The syntax is largely the same.

Install Updates 02:50-03:24
Another best practice for network security is to make sure your Linux operating system is running current updates. Most programs and services – even the operating system itself – have some defects. Some of these defects aren't a big deal, they are just annoying. Others represent a really serious security risk that needs to be fixed. As these bugs are discovered, updates are written and released to make the necessary fixes to the software. With most distributions you can configure the operating system to check for available updates. You can also choose to manually update the packages on your system using the package manager.

Enable a Host Firewall 03:24-04:15
The last best practice that we'll talk about is to implement and configure a host-based firewall on your Linux system. This is critical because most organizations connect their networks to the internet. This is useful from the end user's perspective because it provides access to valuable resources. Unfortunately, it also exposes your network to serious security threats. If a user goes onto the internet, it also means that an uninvited guest from the internet can come back in and access your computer. A host-based firewall can help prevent this from happening, acting as a gatekeeper between your computer and the external network. It monitors all the traffic that flows in both directions between the computer and the external network. You can configure the firewall with a list of rules that define what traffic will be allowed through and which traffic should be blocked.

Summary 04:15-04:38
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we reviewed several measures that you can take to protect your Linux systems from network attacks. We talked about unloading unneeded services, checking for open network ports, and installing updates. We also talked about the importance of enabling a host-based firewall on your Linux system.

## 15.4.2 Remove Unneeded Services and Scan Ports

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Remove Unneeded Services and Scanning Ports 00:00-00:34
As a Linux administrator, system security requires constant attention. One of the key tasks you can do is monitoring for open ports and unneeded services. To do this, let's first switch to our root user account.

Most Linux distributions include a wide variety of packages by default during the installation process. Some of those packages aren't necessary for the system to run. Therefore, one of the first tasks you should complete after installing a new system is to check what services are enabled and running on your system.

systemctl -a Command 00:34-01:33
This can be reviewed by running the systemctl command with the -a option to list all services. The first part of the output deals with storage devices and isn't needed at this point. We're looking for all the service files. We want to scroll through the services listed, paying close attention to these two columns – whether that service is active and if it's currently running.

Here we can see the ISCSI service installed. The packages are installed on the system, but the service is currently not enabled. Any service whose package is installed but is in an inactive state is of less concern. Services that show as active and running, such as the CUPS printing service, are more worrisome.

If we decide we don't want CUPS printing service running, we can disable the service by running systemctl disable --now cups. Or we could uninstall the package completely from the system. If there's a service that's active and running that you aren't familiar with, research the package on the internet, find its purpose, and verify if it's needed on your system.

nmap Utility 01:33-02:29
Next, scan for open ports on the system. We'll use the nmap utility. nmap is extremely useful and can be used for more than scanning for open ports. It can capture packets and analyze network traffic.

An open port on your system is of concern since it indicates a service running on your system is listening for network requests. It is a possible exploit into your system from a security standpoint, so it's vitally important to know what services are running that have open network ports. Then, decide if the service listening on that port is necessary for the system to run, or is it something we can turn off?

Some distributions will install nmap by default. Others will not. We can see if it installed by running apt list --installed | grep nmap. It's not, so we'll install by running apt install nmap. Now, we can scan for any open TCP or UDP ports.

-s Option 02:29-03:18
Let's run a TCP port scan first. Enter nmap and specify -s followed by a capital T to indicate we want to perform a TCP port scan. Then specify the IP address of the host we'll be scanning. nmap can scan both the local system as well as other systems on the network.

We have one TCP port currently open—Port 22. This is used by SSH. We must decide at this point, "Is this a service the system needs?" In this case, probably so, since this is a server we won't have regular physical access to.

Let's scan for open UDP ports. Change the 'T' to a 'U' to specify that we want to scan for UDP ports. We have port 5353 open for zeroconf, which is a DNS service.

Port Scan of Remote System Using nmap 03:18-03:52
nmap can be used to perform a port scan of a remote system as well. This is a common use for nmap--both by white and black hats. Security administrators and attackers use nmap to check the security of hosts on a network.

We are going to perform a TCP port scan of a remote host with an IP address of 192.168.23.9. We see this device has a fileserver running on it. Attackers usually focus on devices that have many open ports and protocols that allow connections to a system. This way they could try and gain access to these devices.

netstat Utility 03:52-04:10
netstat is another very useful tool. It can be used to list open network connections, display your routing table, and display information about the network interface in your system. The syntax for using this command is to enter netstat, followed by the option that you want to use to view specific information.

-a Option 04:10-04:57
To view a list of all listening and non-listening sockets on my Linux system, I would use the -a option. A socket represents one end of a network communication session, and can be in several different states. The socket could be listening, in which case no active connection exists, but it's waiting for one to occur; or it could be established, where a connection does exist, and data is being transferred back and forth.

We can see an established SSH session, the IP address or foreign address that's connected to it, and the name of our system. An established connection means a communication session has been set up between the socket on this system and a socket on a different system.

Once again, review the information displayed by the netstat -a command and verify if there are sockets that have been established that are not necessary.

-i Option 04:57-05:10
netstat can be used to view statistics for your network interface. We run netstat -i to receive statistics for received packets. We also see statistics for transmitted packets.

-s Option 05:10-05:30
The -s option is used to view summary information for each of the protocols on the system. We enter netstat -s, and pipe (|) the output to more. We can see summary information for each protocol configured on the system. We have IP, ICMP, TCP, UDP and other protocols.

-r Option 05:30-05:37
We use the -r option to view the routing table. We are able to see the different routes that have been configured on the system.

Summary 05:37-05:48
In this demonstration we talked about how to increase the security of your system by checking for open ports and unneeded services.

## 15.4.3 Network Security Facts

Adhering to general security procedures can simplify and enhance efforts to increase network security.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- General security procedures
- Network and system security configuration with /etc/sysctl

### General Security Procedures

General procedures for increasing network security of a Linux system include:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Security Task</th>
  <th>Procedure</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Remove unneeded software</td>
  <td>
    Unneeded software takes disk space and could introduce security
    risks. To remove unneeded software:
    <ol>
      <li>
        Run one of the following commands:
        <ul>
          <li>
            Use <b>dnf list installed</b> to see installed RPM packages
            on the computer.
          </li>
          <li>
            Use <b>dpkg -get-selections</b> to see installed Debian
            packages on the computer.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        Research the function of any unrecognized package to determine
        whether it is necessary.
      </li>
      <li>
        Use <b>yum</b> , <b>rpm</b> , or <b>dpkg</b> to uninstall
        unneeded packages.
      </li>
    </ol>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Check for unneeded network services</td>
  <td>
    Unneeded network services waste the computer's resources and might
    provide attackers with an entry point for an attack. To view a list
    of installed services, use one of the following commands:
    <ul>
      <li>
        For init-based systems, run <b>chkconfig</b> at the shell
        prompt.
      </li>
      <li>
        For systemd-based systems, run
        <b>systemctl list-unit-files</b> at the shell prompt.
      </li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Review the output of these commands and look for unusual or
      unrecognized services. Then use the
      <b>man</b> command and the internet to determine whether they can
      be safely removed or disabled. Use the <b>systemctl disable</b> or
      the <b>systemctl mask</b> command to disable a service.
      Alternatively, you could use <b>apt</b>, <b>yum</b>,
      <b>zypper</b>, <b>rpm</b>, or <b>dpkg</b> to remove the package
      entirely.
    </p>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Locate open ports</td>
  <td>
    Open ports can provide information about which operating system a
    computer uses and can provide entry points for an attack. To locate
    open ports:
    <ol>
      <li>
        Install the <b>nmap</b> utility (if not already installed).
      </li>
      <li>
        Use one of the following commands to scan for open ports:
        <ul>
          <li>
            <b>nmap -sT <i>host_IP_address</i></b>
            scans for open TCP ports.
          </li>
          <li>
            <b>nmap -sU <i>host_IP_address</i></b>
            scans for open UDP ports.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>
        From the results of the scan, determine which ports to close and
        which services use the ports.
      </li>
      <li>Disable the services using those ports.</li>
      <li>
        Consider changing default port assignments to different ports.
      </li>
    </ol>
    <div>
      <div class="to-info-box">
        <div class="to-info-box-body">
          <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
          <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
            <span>
              Consider running <b>nmap</b> on the local system as well
              as from a different network host. This reveals which ports
              are open and which services are actually allowed through
              the host's firewall.</span>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Check network connections</td>
  <td>
    Open network connections (e.g., open sockets) on a computer also
    create a security risk. A <i>socket</i> is an endpoint of a
    bidirectional communication flow across a computer network. Use the
    following <b>netstat</b> options to identify the open network
    connections on the Linux system:
    <ul>
      <li><b>-a</b> lists both listening and non-listening sockets.</li>
      <li><b>-l</b> lists listening sockets.</li>
      <li><b>-s</b> displays statistics for each protocol.</li>
      <li><b>-i</b> displays a table of all network interfaces.</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

If you have application or hardware issues, check to make sure that you have not blocked an essential component in your efforts to increase security. You can check availability as follows:

<ul>
<li>
  Software: use <b class="fw-bold">dnf list installed</b> to see install
  RPM packages or <b class="fw-bold">dpkg -get-selections</b> to see
  installed Debian packages.
</li>
<li>
  Network services: use <b class="fw-bold">chkconfig</b> for init-based
  systems. Use s <b class="fw-bold">ystemctl list-unit-file</b> for
  systemd-based systems.
</li>
<li>Ports: use <b class="fw-bold">nmap</b> as previously described.</li>
<li>
  Connections: use <b class="fw-bold">netstat</b> as previously described.
</li>
<li>
  Firewall ACLs: use <b class="fw-bold">iptables -L</b> for the current
  firewall configuration or
  <b class="fw-bold">cat/etc/sysconfig/iptables</b> to read the firewall
  file.
</li>
</ul>

### Network and System Security Configuration with /etc/sysctl

You can harden your Linux network and system setting using `sysctl`. The `sysctl` command is used to modify kernel parameters at runtime. `/etc/sysctl.conf` is a text file containing `sysctl` values to be read in and set by `sysctl` at boot time.

`sysctl` and settings in `/etc/sysctl.conf` include the ability to:

<ul>
<li>Limit network-transmitted configuration for IPv4 and IPv6.</li>
<li>Turn on Exec Shield buffer overflow protection.</li>
<li>Protect against SYN flood attacks.</li>
<li>Turn on source IP address verification.</li>
<li>
  Protect against a spoofing attack on the IP address of the server.
</li>
<li>
  Log several types of suspicious packets, such as spoofed packets,
  source-routed packets, and redirects.
</li>
</ul>

The parameters available for `sysctl` are listed under /proc/sys/. Procfs is required for sysctl support in Linux. You can use `sysctl` to both read and write sysctl data.

The following table has parameters you can use with sysctl.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Parameter</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b><i>variable</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      The name of the key to read from. An example is
      <b>kernel.ostype</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b><i>variable</i> = <i>value</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      The key and value to set. If the value contains quotes or characters
      which are parsed by the shell, enclose the value in double quotes.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>-n</b></td>
    <td>
      This option disables printing the key name when printing values.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>-q</b></td>
    <td>This option prevents displaying the values sent to stdout.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>-w</b></td>
    <td>Use this option when all arguments prescribe a key to be set.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>-p[ <i>filename</i> ]</b>
    </td>
    <td>
      This option loads <b>sysctl</b> settings from the file specified or
      /etc/sysctl.conf if a filename is not given. Using this option
      indicates that arguments to <b>sysctl</b> are files. The files are
      read in the order they're specified.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

The following table identifies some examples of parameters that you can set in /etc/sysctl.conf:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Action</th>
    <th>Parameter</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Control IP packet forwarding</td>
    <td><b class="fw-bold">net.ipv4.ip_forward = 0</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Do not accept source routing</td>
    <td>
      <b class="fw-bold">net.ipv4.conf.default.accept_source_route = 0</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Ignore all ICMP ECHO and TIMESTAMP
      <br />
      requests sent via broadcast/multicast
    </td>
    <td>
      <b class="fw-bold">net.ipv4.icmp_echo_ignore_broadcasts = 1</b>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Prevent common SYN flood attacks</td>
    <td><b class="fw-bold">net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies = 1</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Enable source validation by reversed path</td>
    <td><b class="fw-bold">net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter = 1</b></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
