---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 15.6 SSH Port Tunneling
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the benefit of tunneling traffic through an SSH connection?</li>
<li>Which file on a server configures SSH port tunneling?</li>
<li>Which <b >ssh</b> command should you use to tunnel X server traffic?</li>
<li>How can you send unencrypted X server traffic between a client and a server?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Configure SSH port tunneling</li></ul>

The key terms for this section include:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Sniffing</td>
    <td>
      Data theft done by intercepting and monitoring network traffic.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Secure Shell
      <br />
      (SSH)
    </td>
    <td>
      A cryptographic protocol that provides secure communication between
      two computers.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      4.3 Monitor and manage system access
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>Manage remote connections</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      2.4 Given a scenario, configure and execute remote connectivity for
      system management
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>SSH</li>
        <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
          <ul>
            <li>Tunneling</li>
            <li style="list-style: none; display: inline">
              <ul>
                <li>X11 forwarding</li>
                <li>Port forwarding</li>
                <li>Dynamic forwarding</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 15.6.1 SSH Port Tunneling

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

SSH Port Tunneling 00:00-02:50
A big security issue that you'll always have to deal with is the fact that there are still many commonly used network protocols that transfer information as cleartext. This means that anyone who's sniffing the network can pick up that information and easily read it. In this lesson, we'll look at how we can use SSH port tunneling to protect our data from sniffing attacks.

Some good examples of common protocols that transmit in cleartext are the POP3 and IMAP email protocols. Users can have their email client connect to the Linux Mail Transfer Agent, or MTA, and download their emails. Again, the problem is that both of these protocols transfer data as cleartext by default. If a hacker is sniffing traffic, they can easily intercept sensitive data.

To protect our data, we should use SSH tunneling to encrypt network traffic that's normally sent as cleartext. By doing so, even if a hacker is able to intercept our traffic, all they'll see is a bunch of gibberish that's meaningless to them.

To set up an SSH tunnel, all we need to do is edit some configuration files. First, we want to edit the /etc/ssh/ssh_config file on the client side. When we open this file, we have to uncomment the appropriate directive and set the value to yes. For example, if we wanted to encrypt data between an X server and an X client to display a desktop, we'd uncomment the ForwardX11 line and set the value to yes.

Alternatively, we can use the -x option when running the ssh command at the shell prompt on the client side. This encrypts the data between the X server and the X client for that SSH session. Keep in mind that you'll need to use different switches with the ssh command for other protocols and specify which port you want the encrypted traffic to go through.

On the server side, we'd edit the /etc/ssh/sshd_config file and set the appropriate directive to yes. Again, if we wanted to forward X11 traffic, we'd set the X11Forwarding value here to yes. Once that's done, the X traffic between the X server and the X client system will be encrypted.

Knowing how to properly set up SSH tunneling for encryption is an important skill to master on Linux machines. Every situation will be different, so you'll need to make sure that you know which values need to be changed in your configuration files. Alternatively, if want to use SSH tunneling on just a case-by-case basis, there are different switches you can use with the ssh command to define the SSH tunnel.

Summary 02:50-03:06
And that'll wrap up this lesson on SSH port tunneling. We reviewed how you can send unencrypted traffic through an SSH tunnel to protect it from being read by an attacker.

## 15.6.2 Configure SSH Port Tunneling

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Configure SSH Port Tunneling 00:00-00:11
In this demonstration, we'll show you how to tunnel unencrypted X11 traffic over an encrypted SSH connection.

Host Configuration 00:11-00:36
We start by configuring the SSH server on the host machine to allow TCP forwarding by uncommenting the AllowTcpForwarding option in the configuration file /etc/ssh/sshd_config. We then start the sshd daemon with sudo systemctl start ssh and check that it's running with systemctl status ssh.

Example 00:36-01:00
Now on the client machine, we can run ssh -X ddahl@testout. If we run gedit, we see the gedit window on our machine. But when saving the file, we see it's accessing the host machine's hard disk. In fact, all the processing happens on the host machine. The client machine only gets the display, and all communication between the two is encrypted.

Summary 01:00-01:17
That's it for this demonstration. In this demonstration, we discussed tunneling an unencrypted X connection over an encrypted SSH connection and showed launching a remote X application on a local machine.

## 15.6.3 SSH Port Tunneling Facts

Secure Shell (SSH) port forwarding and tunneling encrypts data from unsecure protocols and then sends the data over a network connection. Unsecure protocols, such as email and X server traffic, can be tunneled through SSH.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- SSH port tunneling process
- Local and remote port forwarding

### SSH Port Tunneling Process

The SSH port tunneling process works as follows:

<ol>
<li>
  The client sends the unsecure protocol information to the port on the
  server running the SSH daemon.
</li>
<li>
  The SSH daemon intercepts all traffic sent to that port, encrypts it,
  and sends it to the SSH client.
</li>
<li>
  The SSH client receives the encrypted traffic, decrypts it, and forwards
  it to the default port for the client.
</li>
<li>The client receives the data on its usual port.</li>
</ol>

The /etc/ssh/sshd_config file configures the SSH daemon on the server. Commonly used options for configuring an SSH tunnel are listed below.

<ul>
<li>
  <b>AllowTcpForwarding</b> allows TCP traffic to be sent from the SSH
  daemon when set to <b>yes</b> .
</li>
<li>
  <b>ForwardX11</b> specifies that clients that requests are forwarded to
  are regarded as untrusted and have restricted access to certain GUI
  features.
</li>
<li>
  <b>ForwardX11Trusted</b> specifies that clients that requests are
  forwarded to are regarded as trusted and have unrestricted access to all
  GUI features.
</li>
<li>
  <b>X11Forwarding</b> is used on some distributions instead of
  <b>ForwardX11Trusted</b> .
</li>
<li>
  <b>VNC</b> allows any computer to act as a graphical terminal server
  that supports multiple desktops and users.
</li>
</ul>

Use the following commands to create an SSH port tunnel:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Function</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td><b>ssh</b></td>
    <td>
      Sets up an SSH tunnel from the client to the server. Consider the
      options below.
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-f</b> runs SSH in the background after the password prompt.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-N</b> ensures that SSH does not execute a remote command.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>-D</b> specifies a local "dynamic" application-level port
          forward where ssh acts as a SOCKS server.
        </li>
        <li><b>-L</b> specifies the port numbers and server address.</li>
        <li>
          <b>-g</b> overrides configuration file settings and creates a
          tunnel (if needed).
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>tunnel <i class="fs-italicize">port</i></b> specifies the SSH
          port for the encrypted data. Only the root user can set the SSH
          port to a privileged port (e.g., port 1024 or lower).
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>server</b> specifies the server running the SSH daemon.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b><i class="fs-italicize">port</i></b> specifies the default
          port for an unsecure protocol.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>ssh -f -N -L 2345:mail.corpnet.com:110
        userbob@mail.corpnet.com</b>
      (Sets up an SSH port tunnel for POP3 mail traffic over port 2345.)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>ssh -X</b></td>
    <td>
      Sets up an SSH tunnel from the client to the server for X server
      traffic. Consider the options below.
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-l</b> specifies the username of the account on the remote
          system.
        </li>
        <li><b>server</b> specifies the SSH server address.</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>ssh -X -l mtrance hn3.corpnet.com</b> (Sets up an SSH port tunnel
      for X server traffic.)
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Local and Remote Port Forwarding

You can redirect the console using a local or remote SSH connection. The following table describes each of these SSH tunneling methods.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Type</th>
    <th>Function</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Local port forwarding</td>
    <td>
      <p>
        Uses a local SSH connection to create an encrypted tunnel to a
        remote machine. With local port forwarding, you connect to a
        destination server via an SSH server. Be aware of the following
        conditions:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>You enter your password to authenticate to your machine.</li>
        <li>
          To establish the connection, you enter
          <b>ssh -L
            <i class="fs-italicize">port:hostname:port</i> localhost</b>
          in a terminal window on your client. For example, to connect
          corpnet.com port 80 to port 8080 on your client machine, enter
          <b>ssh -L 8080:corpnet.com:80 localhost</b> .
        </li>
        <li>
          To view the display on compnet.com, you browse to
          <b>http://localhost 8080</b> .
        </li>
        <li>
          To close the connection, type <b>exit</b> in your client
          terminal window.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Remote port forwarding</td>
    <td>
      <p>
        Uses a remote SSH connection to create an encrypted tunnel from a
        remote machine to your SSH client. Remote port forwarding is the
        opposite of local port forwarding. Be aware of the following
        conditions:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          Modify the <b>/etc/ssh/sshd_config</b> file to include the
          gateway entry at the end of the file. For example,
          <b>GatewayPorts yes</b> allows anyone to connect to the
          forwarded port, <b>Gateway Ports no</b> prevents access from
          outside the server computer, and
          <b>GatewayPorts clientspecified</b> allows you to specify an IP
          address that connections are supported from.
        </li>
        <li>
          Restart the SSH daemon by using the
          <b>sudo systemctl restart sshd</b> command. This requires that
          you have SSH access to the remote machine.
        </li>
        <li>
          Enter the
          <b>ssh -R <i class="fs-italicize">port</i> :localhost:
            <i class="fs-italicize">port username@hostname</i></b>
          command. Enter the username that you have access to on the
          remote machine and the ports that you want to use for the
          connection.
        </li>
        <li>
          You have to authenticate to the username on the remote computer.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
