---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 4.3 systemd Boot Targets
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is a boot target?</li>
<li>Which target unit is the runlevel5.target file equivalent to?</li>
<li>What does the <b class="fw-bold">systemctl set-default graphical.target</b> command do?</li>
<li>How does the multi-user.target file differ from the graphical.target file?</li>
<li>Which command do you use to manage boot targets?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Change the current boot target</li>
<li>Set the default boot target</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Daemon</td>
    <td>
      A computer program that runs as a background process. It may run
      in response to an event or may be set up to run at a specific
      time.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Resource</td>
    <td>An object such as a socket, file system, or device.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Target unit</td>
    <td>
      A unit configuration file that contains information about a
      grouping of units. The target unit works as a synchronization
      point during system startup.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Unit file</td>
    <td>
      A file that consists of sections to specify behavior and metadata
      for directing actions of or upon processes, daemons, resources,
      and objects on a Linux system.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      1.3 Manage system startup and shutdown
      <ul>
        <li>
          View and manage runlevels or boot targets for system services
        </li>
        <li>Set the default system runlevel or boot target</li>
        <li>Shutdown and restart the system</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      4.5 Given a scenario, use systemd to diagnose and resolve common
      problems with a Linux system
      <br />
      <ul>
        <li>Unit files</li>
        <ul>
          <li>Service</li>
          <li>ExecStart/ExecStop</li>
          <li>Before/after</li>
          <li>Type</li>
          <li>Requires/wants</li>
          <li>Unit</li>
          <li>Mount</li>
          <li>Type</li>
          <li>Target</li>
          <ul>
            <li>Default</li>
            <li>Multiuser</li>
            <li>Network-online</li>
            <li>Graphical</li>
          </ul>
        </ul>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 4.3.1 systemd Boot Targets

### systemd Boot Targets 00:00-00:35

In this lesson, we're going to look at the concept of boot targets that are used with systemd. Boot targets define how your system boots. As you may know, Microsoft Windows has this option as well. When you boot a Windows system and hit the F8 key during boot, you're presented with a boot menu and may choose the Safe Mode menu item so your system boots in a minimal system mode, allowing you to fix a problematic system. Linux has the same ability. Not only can you change how a Linux system boots, but you can also change it while it's up and running. Let's take a closer look.

### Linux Boot Targets 00:35-00:51

There are several boot targets on a Linux system. Those who've used Linux for a while may remember the init system and runlevels. The different runlevels represented how your Linux system would boot. systemd introduced another method of invoking these, but the results are almost the same.

### Linux Boot Target Files 00:51-02:07

Each boot target used on your Linux system is represented by a file in the /usr/lib/systemd/system directory. All of the boot target files have a target extension.

The first boot target is poweroff.target. It's used to do what it says and shut down a system. This is synonymous with the Linux shutdown -h command. Next is rescue.target. It's used to repair a system and starts the system in single-user mode. The third is the multi-user.target This is used to start the Linux system in a normal text mode, with no graphics, sometimes called server mode. The most common target used by workstations and home enthusiasts is graphical.target. This starts Linux with a normal graphical interface. The reboot.target does what it says and is the same as the Linux shutdown -r command. Lastly is the emergency.target. It's the most minimal environment and allows system repair when rescue mode doesn't work. It mounts the system as read-only and doesn't start networking or mount any other local file system.

As shown in this table, the init boot targets are all linked files pointing to the associated systemd boot targets. These files are here to provide compatibility with older systems.

### Switching Boot Targets 02:07-03:26

At boot time, the system uses the default settings for your Linux system to determine which boot target to use. For most desktop systems, you may choose to use the graphical target, while servers may use the multi-user target. A couple of commands switch targets either at boot time or while a system is running. To modify how a system boots, you first must determine which target is used by default. To find out, use the systemctl get-default command. This'll display the current boot target. To change it, use the systemctl set-default target-name such as systemctl set-default multi-user.target. This only changes the configuration—it doesn't change the target. This creates a symlinked file in the /etc/systemd/system directory called default.target that points to the target specified in the set-default command. The system must be restarted for the new configuration to take effect.

To change targets on a running system, you use the systemctl isolate command. This command will immediately change a system's current target to the one specified in the command. For instance, invoking systemctl isolate multi-user will change a system running in the graphical target into the multi-user target.

In older systems, this is similar to the init command and the inittab file.

### Summary 03:26-03:51

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we introduced you to the concept of a boot target under systemd. We first talked about what a boot target is. Then we reviewed several of the key boot targets that are used on a Linux system. Then we talked about how to change boot targets. And then, we finally ended this lesson by discussing how to switch boot targets.

## 4.3.2 Managing Boot Targets

### Manage Boot Targets 00:00-00:19

In this demonstration, we're going to spend some time learning how to manage Linux boot targets. Linux used to use runlevels, not boot targets, to determine the operating system state at bootup. With the widespread adoption of systemd, targets now manage the system state.

### Boot Target Unit Files 00:19-02:40

Each boot target is represented by a unit file in the file system. The default location for these files is /usr/lib/systemd/system. This directory also has unit files for other systemd components, but we'll focus on the files with the .target extension in this demo. As you can see, there are many files here with that extension. Let's get started.

We'll begin with the graphical.target file. The "graphical" part of the unit filename is in reference to the graphical user interface, which starts up as part of this file. This puts the system into a multi-user mode, meaning that multiple people can be logged in at the same time. The file also enables networking on the system. Now, the multi-user target file does the same thing, except it doesn't use a graphical user interface. Instead, it uses a text-based user interface. Note, though, that just because a target doesn't start the GUI itself, it can be started manually by an administrator. So I can have the system boot into the multi-user target, but start the GUI if I need. The graphical target is typically run on workstations where end users want a GUI experience. You'll typically see the multi-user target on Linux servers, where there's no need to have a GUI.

Now, the rescue target—defined by the rescue.target unit file—is used to repair a broken Linux system. That's because the rescue target only allows a single user to log in, and networking isn't enabled. Also, there's no GUI with this target, either.

There are two other boot targets to note here. If you use reboot.target to set the system state—as its name implies—it'll simply reboot the system. There's also poweroff.target. If you use this file to set the state, the system shuts it down.

Now, there are seven other boot target files that you can use to set the system state: runlevel0 through runlevel6. These are symbolic links to other unit files. Like we talked about initially, runlevels are from the older init system daemon that was used before systemd. All in all, they're pretty similar to boot targets. The runlevel0.target file points to poweroff.target. Runlevel6.target points to reboot.target. The runlevel2 through runlevel4 files point to multi-user.target, and runlevel5.target points to graphical.target.

### Default Boot Target 02:40-03:49

Unlike runlevels, systemd.targets aren't mutually exclusive, meaning you can have more than one target running at a time. If I execute the systemctl list-units --type=target --state=active command, I can see that there are several running simultaneously. To determine which is the default boot target—which will load several others as well—I execute systemctl get-default. This system is configured to boot to the graphical target.

If we list the contents of the /usr/lib/systemd/system directory using ls -l, we can see that the default target is actually a symbolic link that points to graphical.target. We can change this with the systemctl command. For example, let's say that we want to modify this system so that it boots without a graphical interface. To do that, we enter systemctl set-default and then the name of the boot target we want to use as the default. In this case, let's set it to multi-user.target.

### Change Targets 03:49-04:26

You can also use the systemctl command to change the system state to a different boot target. Let's suppose that we want to change to multi-user.target now, where we'll have a text-based interface instead. To do this, we enter systemctl isolate multi-user.

Notice that the system state has changed. We're no longer running a GUI, but networking is still enabled. And the multi-user nature of the OS hasn't changed, either. We've just shed the graphical interface part. I'll quickly switch it back to the graphical interface again with sudo systemctl isolate graphical.target.

### Summary 04:26-04:48

And that does it for this demonstration. In this demo, we introduced you to the concept of boot targets. We talked about the role of boot targets, we looked at boot target files, and we talked about how to view the current boot target. We also talked about how to set the default boot target and how to switch between them.

## 4.3.5 Boot Target Facts

The systemd daemon uses boot targets to set the system state. A boot target represents one of several different modes that the Linux system can be configured to run in.

<div class="to-info-box-body">
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
  <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>          
<div class="to-info-box-body-content">
  <span>
    Earlier versions of Linux that were based on the init daemon used
    runlevels instead of boot targets to set the system state.</span>
</div>
</div>

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Boot target files</li>
<li>Equivalent runlevel names</li>
<li>The systemctl command</li></ul>

### Boot Target Files

The default boot target specifies the state that your system will boot into each time it is turned on. In addition, the system state can be dynamically switched between boot targets while the operating system is running. Unlike runlevels in the init daemon context, boot targets are not mutually exclusive. In other words, more than one target can be active simultaneously. Each boot target is represented by a file (called a target unit) in /usr/lib/systemd/system:

<table id="table1">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Target File</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>poweroff.target</td>
    <td>Halts the system.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>rescue.target</td>
    <td>
      Configures the system to run in single-user mode with a text-based
      user interface. This target sets up a base system and opens a
      rescue shell for troubleshooting system problems.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>multi-user.target</td>
    <td>
      Configures the system to run in multi-user mode with a text-based
      user interface. This target is commonly used as the default mode
      for server systems.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>graphical.target</td>
    <td>
      Configures the system to run in multi-user mode with a graphical
      user interface. This target provides all the services of the
      multi-user target with the addition of a graphical user interface.
      This target is commonly used as the default mode for desktop
      systems.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>reboot.target</td>
    <td>Reboots the system.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>emergency.target</td>
    <td>
      Opens a minimal emergency shell for troubleshooting serious system
      problems.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Equivalent Runlevel Names

Because init-based distributions have been around for decades, systemd provides additional boot targets that use runlevel-like names to help ease the transition from init to systemd:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Target File</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>runlevel0.target</td>
    <td>Equivalent of poweroff.target</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>runlevel1.target</td>
    <td>Equivalent of rescue.target</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      runlevel2.target
      <br />
      runlevel3.target
      <br />
      runlevel4.target
    </td>
    <td>Equivalent of multi-user.target</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>runlevel5.target</td>
    <td>Equivalent of graphical.target</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>runlevel6.target</td>
    <td>Equivalent of reboot.target</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### The systemctl Command

#### systemctl

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Description</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>systemctl isolate <i>boot_target</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Changes the system state to the specified boot target. Changing
      boot targets with the systemctl command changes only the current
      system state. If the system is restarted, it will revert back to
      the default boot target.
    </td>
    <td>
      Either of the following commands can be used to switch the system
      to multi-user mode with a graphical user interface:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>systemctl isolate runlevel 5.target</b>
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>systemctl isolate graphical.target</b>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>systemctl get-default</b></td>
    <td>Displays the current boot target.</td>
    <td><b>systemctl get-default</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>systemctl set-default <i>boot_target</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Sets the default boot target, which is identified by the
      /etc/systemd/system/default.target file. This file is a symbolic
      link that points to a target file in /usr/lib/systemd/system that
      should be used by default when the system starts. This command
      modifies the target file that the default.target symbolic link
      points to.
    </td>
    <td>
      Either of the following commands can be used to set the default
      boot target to graphical mode:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>systemctl set-default graphical.target</b>
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>systemctl set-default runlevel 5.target</b>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<div>
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
  <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>          
<div>
  <span>
    On older Linux distributions, the <b>init</b> command was used to
    manage runlevels and system daemons. The /etc/inittab file was used
    to set the default runlevel.</span>
</div>
</div>

You can use the **systemd-analyze blame** command to print a list of running units, listed in the order of time to initialize. Consider that initialization time includes the time a unit must wait for another unit to complete. The **systemd-analyze blame** command does not report results for services that start immediately as indicated by type=simple.

## 4.3.6 Unit Files Facts

Systemd manages many functions of a Linux server, including services and system states. A unit refers to any resource that systemd knows how to operate on and manage. Systemd uses unit files to manage these functions. Unit files are configuration files that define the actions of resources and are managed by daemons and utilities.

Examples of resources controlled by unit files are:

<ul><li>Sockets</li>
<li>Devices</li>
<li>Mount points</li>
<li>Automount points</li>
<li>Filesystem</li>
<li>Targets</li></ul>

This lesson covers the following topics:

<ul><li>Unit file structure</li>
<li>Directory locations</li>
<li>Target units</li></ul>

### Unit File Structure

Unit files consist of sections that specify behavior and metadata. Sections contain directives for the unit. Some section directives are environment parameters that control how a unit file functions.

Each section within the unit file is formatted as:

<ul><li>[Section]</li>
<li>Directive1=value</li>
<li>Directive2=value</li></ul>

Example: iscsi.service unit file

<blockquote>
<p>
  [Unit] Description=Login and scanning of iSCSI devices
  <br />
  Documentation=man:iscsid (8) man:iscsiadm(8)
  <br />
  DefaultDependencies=no
  <br />
  Conflicts=shutdown.target
  <br />
  After=systemd-remount-fs.service network.target iscsid.service
  iscsiuio.service
  <br />
  Before=remote-fs-pre.target
  <br />
  Wants=remote-fs-pre.target iscsi-shutdown.service
  <br />
  ConditionDirectoryNotEmpty=|/var/lib/iscsi/nodes
  ConditionDirectoryNotEmpty=|/sys/cIass/iscsi session
  <br />
  <br />
  [Service]
  <br />
  Type=oneshot
  <br />
  RemainAfterExit=true
  <br />
  ExecStart=-/usr/libexec/iscsi-mark-root-nodes
  <br />
  ExecStart=-/sbin/iscsiadm -m node --loginall=automatic
  <br />
  ExecReload=-/sbin/iscsiadm -m node --loginall=automatic
</p>
<p>[Install] WantedBy=sysinit.target</p>
</blockquote>

The following table identifies some commonly used sections:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Section</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Unit section</td>
  <td>
    The Unit directives provide an overview of the unit.
    <br />
    <br />
    Unit section directives include:
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Option</th>
          <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Documentation=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists referencing documentation for this unit or its
            configuration.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>DefaultDependencies=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists 'yes' or 'no.' These are similar to implicit
            dependencies but can be turned on and off by setting this
            option to yes or no.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Conflicts=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists negative requirement dependencies. If a unit has a
            <b>Conflicts=</b> setting on another unit, starting the
            former will stop the latter and vice versa. Note that this
            setting is independent of the <b>After=</b> and
            <b>Before=</b> ordering dependencies.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Requires=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists the units that must be activated for a unit to
            function. By default, the other units listed by a
            directive are activated at the same time as the unit.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>After=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists the units to start before this unit is started.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Before=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists the units to start after this unit is started.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Wants=</b></td>
          <td>
            Lists the units recommended to be in effect or started for
            the unit to function.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Unit-specific section</td>
  <td>
    <p>
      Systemd categorizes units according to the type of resource they
      describe. The easiest way to determine the type of a unit is by
      the suffix type appended to the end of the resource name. For
      example, a unit file named
      <i>my.service</i> would be a service unit file that would
      describe how to manage a service.
    </p>
    <p>
      Therefore, unit files will typically contain a unit-specific
      section. The following table shows a few examples of unit files
      that have directives specific to their type:
    </p>
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Type</th>
          <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td>Service</td>
          <td>
            Describes how to manage a service or application on the
            server.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Socket</td>
          <td>
            Describes a network or IPC socket or a FIFO buffer that
            systemd uses for socket-based activation.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Mount</td>
          <td>
            Defines a mount point on the system to be managed by
            systemd.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td>Automount</td>
          <td>
            Configures a mount point that will be automatically
            mounted.
          </td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
    <div>
      <div class="to-info-box">
        <div class="to-info-box-body">
          <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
            <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>                      
          <div>
            <span>
              When a unit does not include a directive type, it does
              have unit-specific sections.</span>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </div>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Install section</td>
  <td>
    <p>
      The install section is typically the last section in a unit
      file. Typically, a unit is installed or enabled by another unit
      that is started at boot. Directives in the install section
      specify what happens when a unit is enabled. Directives found in
      the install section include:
    </p>
    <table>
      <thead>
        <tr>
          <th>Option</th>
          <th>Descriptions</th>
        </tr>
      </thead>
      <tbody>
        <tr>
          <td><b>WantedBy=</b></td>
          <td>
            Specifies the unit requesting this unit to be enabled.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>RequiredBy=</b></td>
          <td>
            Specifies that another unit requires this unit to be
            enabled.
          </td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
          <td><b>Also=</b></td>
          <td>Specifies units to be enabled or disabled as a set.</td>
        </tr>
      </tbody>
    </table>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### Environment=

The following example shows an environment variable using the unit-specific section named service:

<blockquote>Environment=</blockquote>
<blockquote>EnvironmentFile=</blockquote>
<blockquote>
<p>
  [Service]
  <br />
  Type=notify
  <br />
  EnvironmentFile=-/etc/sysconfig/libvirtd
  <br />
  ExecStart=
</p>
</blockquote>
<div>
<div >
  <div >
    <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
      <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>              
    <div>
      <span>
        Settings from these files override settings made with
        <b>Environment=</b> . If the same variable is set twice from
        these files, the files will be read in the order they are
        specified, and the later setting will override the earlier
        setting.</span>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

### Directory Locations

Although each distribution may vary, unit files generally adhere to the following directory locations and rules:

<ul>
<li>
Unit files are generally kept in the /lib/systemd/system directory.
</li>
<li>
<div>
  <div>
    <div>
      <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
        <svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>                  
      <div>
        <span>
          Do not edit files in this directory. You can change a unit's
          function as indicated in the following bullets.</span>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>
</li>
<li>
To change a unit function, place a unit file with the preferred
behavior in /etc/systemd/system. Units in this directory take
precedence.
</li>
<li>
You can override specific directives in a unit file by creating
another unit file that contains snippets of the function changes in a
subdirectory of the unit file.
<ul>
  <li>
    To do this, you create a directory named after the unit file with
    a .d appended to the directory name, for example,
    <b class="fw-bold">hd0.device.d</b> .
  </li>
  <li>
    Within this directory, you create a unit file ending with .conf.
    You enter directives in this file to override or extend the
    attributes of the unit file.
  </li>
  <li>
    You can reset or override a directive by assigning an empty string
    to a directive in the unit file ending in .conf.
  </li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
Run-time unit definitions can be stored in /run/systemd/system. The
priority of these unit files is lower than units in
/etc/systemd/system but higher than units in /lib/systemd/system.
Dynamically created unit files are stored in this directory.
</li>
<li>
<p>
  High-level hostnames generated by hostnamectl are stored in
  /etc/machine-info. Static hostnames generated by hostnamectl are
  stored in /etc/hostname.
</p>
</li>
</ul>

### Target Units

A target unit is used to provide a synchronization point for other units when the system is booting up or changing states. A target unit can be used to group unit dependencies and to establish names for dependencies between units. It also can be used to bring the system to a new state. Other units specify their relation to targets to become tied to the target's operations.
