---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 4.4 System Services
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the role of the <b class="fw-bold">systemctl</b> command?</li>
<li>How does <b class="fw-bold">systemctl enable <i class="fs-italicize">service</i> .service</b> differ from <b class="fw-bold">systemctl is-enabled <i class="fs-italicize">service</i> .service</b> ?</li>
<li>What happens when you mask a daemon?</li>
<li>Which command starts a daemon?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Manage system services</li>
<li>Enable system services at bootup</li></ul>

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Term</th>
  <th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Daemon</td>
  <td>
    A computer program that runs as a background process. It may run
    in response to an event or may be set up to run at a specific
    time.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Process</td>
  <td>
    A running program. It is often used synonymously with service or
    daemon.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Service</td>
  <td>
    A term that is used interchangeably with process and daemon. (
    <b>service</b> is also a command in earlier versions of Linux that
    runs and controls processes using a SysVinit script.)
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>mask</b></td>
  <td>
    An option of the <b>systemctl</b> command that prevents a service
    from starting.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td><b>unmask</b></td>
  <td>
    An option of the <b>systemctl</b> command that removes a mask from
    a service.
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Exam</th>
  <th>Objective</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
  <td>
    1.4 Manage system processes
    <ul>
      <li>Start, stop, and restart system services</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
  <td>
    1.4 Given a scenario, configure and use the appropriate processes
    and services
    <br />
    <ul>
      <li>System services</li>
      <ul>
        <li>systemctl</li>
        <ul>
          <li>stop</li>
          <li>start</li>
          <li>restart</li>
          <li>reload</li>
          <li>status</li>
          <li>enable</li>
          <li>disable</li>
          <li>mask</li>
        </ul>
      </ul>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 4.4.1 System Services

### System Services 00:00-00:49

When your Linux system starts, there are a few programs that must run to set up your operating system. These are called targets. They control whether your system starts in a graphical mode, a text-based mode, or a couple of others. Also, there are other programs, often called daemons, that further define how your system works. For instance, a server may run a DHCP or DNS daemon, and a workstation may need specialized video and sound drivers. System services often run at boot time and this lesson shows you how to control them.

You've used end-user applications such as an internet browser or word processor. These applications have user interfaces that you interact with to produce some sort of input and output. Daemons are a bit different. They perform a service, but rarely have a user interface.

Daemons can be configured to start when the system boots or on demand.

### Starting and Stopping Daemons 00:49-01:36

To start a daemon, we use the systemctl command. This command has many functions that control behavior. However, here we will only discuss how systemctl controls daemons.

Daemons are often given filenames that describe their service followed by the letter d. For example: network time is often retrieved from an internet source and the daemon is named ntpd. The same is true with DHCP and SSH daemons.

Here, we want to start a daemon service or process. The syntax for the command is systemctl start followed by the daemon name. Suppose we wanted to start the SSH daemon. The command would be systemctl start sshd. The syntax to stop a daemon is the same only replace the action start with stop.

### Restart a System Daemon 01:36-02:13

As with any system, there are times when a system process stops working or is misbehaving. The process is needed for the system to run properly, so you need to remedy the situation. You can simply stop then start the process, or you can use a single action that does both. The restart action does just that – it stops a daemon then starts it again. Keep in mind you are stopping a daemon. If it's one that is heavily used, such as firewalld or httpd – a webserver daemon – you may disrupt required services for a few seconds. However, if the process has gone rogue or has stopped functioning, this is a necessary step.

### Check Daemon Status 02:13-02:53

System processes often run with no issues and continue running well while the system is up. However, it's possible for a system process to stop functioning. This can happen for a number of reasons, such as memory issues, disk issues, or an unknown bug in the software. To check if a daemon is running, you can run the systemctl status command to display whether the daemon is active or dead. Here you see examples of a running process and a stopped process. Notice the green active running on the top and the inactive dead on the bottom. Understand this doesn't tell you what happened, it simply gets the daemon going again. You may have to perform system diagnostics and view logs to determine why the process stopped.

### Reload Daemon 02:53-03:50

One problem with the restart action is it first stops the daemon then restarts it. During the time the daemon is stopped, its service is down. Granted, this may be only a few seconds, however, any user or other process using the daemon will be temporarily unable to utilize the service. At first, this sounds like an inconvenience. However, it can have a cascading effect and possibly foul other processes too. A solution to this issue is using the reload action. Reload reads and applies the daemon's configuration. Suppose the firewall is updated with new ACLs or the NTP daemon is updated with additional time sources. Here the daemon doesn't stop processing; it simply updates it's configuration resources.

This action is not available for every daemon. Consult the Linux man page or the daemons available options for actions. Or, if you utilize the command and an error is displayed, reload isn't an available action. You'll have to utilize the restart action instead.

### Enable and Disable Daemons 03:50-05:20

Linux is a modular operating system. What this means is the system is made up of different modules that perform some type of a service. If you have a system that's not running a webserver, there is no need to load the webserver daemon. Also, if the system syncs time from the internet, make sure the NTP daemon is always running. This modularity allows a system administrator to make the decisions about which daemons are started at boot time or not.

It's important to ensure the system is running safely and properly. If you're not sure about what you're doing, you should probably hold off. If you do something like disable a service from running, you may cause harm to the system by preventing a firewall or anti-virus from running. Or, enabling unneeded services could use up memory or create a security hole. Be sure to understand what you're doing before you do it.

To configure a daemon to start at system boot, issue the systemctl enable daemon-name. This is usually already configured for daemons such as NTP and SSH. However, there are others, such as the at daemon, that allow you to start a process at a later time. Without the daemon running, you will get an error when trying to use the at command.

The same is true if you want to ensure a daemon doesn't start at boot time. Replacing enable with disable prevents a daemon from starting when the system boots. To utilize the services of a daemon that is not running, you'll need to start the daemon manually.

To discover if a daemon is enabled to start at boot, run the systemctl is-enabled action and it returns enabled or disabled.

### Block a Daemon from Starting 05:20-06:00

There are a number of reasons for preventing a daemon from starting either automatically at boot or manually. You may use a 3rd party firewall and want to prevent the Linux firewall from running. You have not configured a webserver, so you want to ensure the webserver daemon can't start. I'm sure you may have other reasons in mind too. To prevent a daemon from starting, use the mask action. Effectively, the daemon's start script is mapped to the null device on your system. This prevents it from starting. To reverse this and allow the daemon start, issue the systemctl unmask daemon-name and it'll become enabled. This won't start the daemon, but simply allows you to manually start it or it will be started at boot time.

### Summary 06:00-06:19

That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, you learned how to control system process. You learned how to start and stop processes, restart and reload daemons, enable a daemon to load at boot, and how to prevent a daemon from loading.

## 4.4.2 Manage System Services

### Manage System Services 00:00-00:18

In this demonstration, we're going to talk about managing services running on a Linux system. These services are also called daemons. Daemons run in the background, and they provide functionality either to the local running system or to another host somewhere on the network.

### cups daemon 00:18-02:23

We have the cups daemon on this system. This daemon is used for printing on the local system, or it can be used as a print server. One of the first things I need to know is whether or not that daemon is running. If it isn't running, then we can't print. Let's use the systemctl command. Then we'll use the status option followed by cups.service. Press Enter, and it tells us that it's inactive. It's dead. That means it's installed on the system, but it isn't doing anything, so I need to start it. To do that, I use the same systemctl command. But instead of using the status option, I use the start option. This command tells the cups daemon to load and start up.

Now, if I do the status command again, we see that it is active and running. There may be times when you have a particular daemon running on your system, and you decide, Well, you know what? I really don't want it running anymore. I need to shut it down. In this case, you use the systemctl command again, but instead of start, we enter stop. This tells the cups daemon to go ahead and shut down. If we do a status again, it's no longer running. It's inactive. Let's go ahead and start it again. Now the cups daemon is running.

There may be times when you're managing a particular service and you make changes to its configuration file. The configuration file for most services is read only when that service initially starts. If the service is already running and you make changes in the configuration file, they won't actually be applied until the next time you boot the system when that service starts. That probably won't work. Why? Because if you're in there making changes to the config file, it's likely you want those changes applied right away, and you need to restart the daemon.

There's two ways to do this. One is to enter systemctl stop and then systemctl start. That would reload the configuration. Another way to do it is to use the restart option with the systemctl command. This stops the cups daemon and then starts it up again. Hit Enter. It'll take just a second. Now, if we enter status, we should see that it's running.

### Reload Option 02:23-02:56

There's a third option for reloading the configuration, but it's not supported by all services. With the reload option, we don't actually shut down the service and then bring it back online. Instead, we leave the service running and simply give it a signal to go and read its configuration file and make the necessary changes. Remember, not all services support the reload option. In fact, I'm not sure if cups does or not; let's find out. It doesn't like it. Not all services support the reload option, but all of them respond to the restart option.

### enable and disable 02:56-04:22

Now, there may come a time where you either want to make sure this service comes up automatically on boot or have it disabled on boot. That is what the enable and disable function is for. In fact, if we look right up here, in the output of our status command, notice that it states disabled. It's currently running on the system. It's not disabled in the sense that it's not functioning; it is functioning. It's just disabled from coming online automatically at boot.

If you want to check and see whether a service is enabled or not on system start up, you can use the systemctl command with the is-enabled option followed by the name of the service in question, cups.service. And as we saw up here, in the output of the status command, it's currently disabled.

Let's go ahead and enable it so the cups service starts every time the system starts: systemctl enable cups.service. The output shows us symbolic links were created so systemd knows what services to start up on boot. Now we can use the is-enabled command again, and it's enabled.

If, for some reason, you have a service running on your system that's enabled—it's starting every time the system boots—but you don't want it to do that anymore, you can just replace 'enable' with 'disable', followed by the name of the service in question so that it doesn't start automatically on system boot. Hit Enter, and you can see here that the symbolic link has been removed. If we check the status, we see that it's disabled now.

### mask 04:22-05:39

When you have a service installed and you want to make sure it doesn't come up, there's a stronger version of disable called mask. Essentially, it will link the unit files from the service to /dev/null, making it impossible to start the service. Even though a service may be disabled, it doesn't prohibit it from be started adhoc. Lets go ahead and try this on the cups.service. First, we want to make sure it's stopped by typing systemctl stop cups.service. We already disabled it from startup. We're going to mask it now: systemctl mask cups.service. Now you can see that it made the symbolic link to /dev/null. Let's try to start it: systemctl start cups.service. And just like that, it gives us a message that says it failed to start because it's masked.

If, by chance, you need to remove the mask, you can just unmask it by typing systemctl unmask cups.service. Now, let's try our start command again. This time, it does take the command. Next, we'll check our status and now we can see its running. Keep in mind any systemctl commands that change a service state or configuration require sudo or root privileges.

### Summary 05:39-06:02

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about how to manage services. First, we looked at using the systemctl command to start, stop, restart, and check the status of system services. Then we talked about how to use the systemctl command to enable, disable, or mask a service.

## 4.4.3 System Service Facts

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Services/daemons overview
- Systemctl commands

### Services/Daemons Overview

Managing boot targets is an important aspect of administrating a Linux System. System services (often called daemons) run on the operating system but are designed to provide services that keep the system up and running and make it useful in some way. They are not designed to continually interact with the end user (like an application does) and, therefore, usually do not provide any kind of user interface. A few examples of Linux daemons include FirewallD, NTPD, and SSHD.

### Systemctl Commands

#### systemctl

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Command</th>
  <th>Function</th>
  <th>Example</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl start <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>Starts a daemon.</td>
  <td><b>systemctl start nfs.service</b> starts the NFS daemon.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl stop <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>Stops a daemon.</td>
  <td><b>systemctl stop nfs.service</b> stops the NFS daemon.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl restart <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>Restarts a daemon.</td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl restart nfs.service</b> stops and then restarts the
    NFS daemon.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl reload <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>
    Reloads a daemon's configuration without actually stopping the
    daemon itself.
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl reload nfs.service</b> reloads the NFS daemon's
    configuration file without stopping the daemon itself.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl status <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>Displays a daemon's status.</td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl status nfs.service</b> displays the current status of
    the NFS daemon.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl enable <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>Automatically starts a daemon when the system starts.</td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl enable nfs.service</b> automatically starts the NFS
    daemon every time the system boots.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl disable <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>
    Prevents a daemon from automatically starting when the system
    starts.
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl disable nfs.service</b> disables the NFS daemon so
    that it does not automatically start when the system boots.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl is-enabled <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>
    Looks to see if a daemon is configured to automatically start on
    system boot.
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl is-enabled nfs.service</b> displays whether or not
    the NFS daemon will be automatically started when the system
    boots.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl mask <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>
    Prevents a daemon from starting at all, either automatically or
    manually, from the shell prompt.
  </td>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl mask nfs.service</b> prevents the NFS daemon from
    starting at all.
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>
    <b>systemctl unmask <i>service</i> .service</b>
  </td>
  <td>
    Unmasks a previously masked daemon. This allows the daemon to be
    started either manually or automatically.
  </td>
  <td><b>systemctl unmask nfs.service</b> unmasks the NFS daemon.</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<div>
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
<svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>          
<div>
<span>
  Earlier versions of Linux that were based on the init daemon used
  <i>init scripts</i> along with the <b>chkconfig</b> ,
  <b>insserv</b> , <b>rc</b> , and <b>service</b> commands to manage
  system services.</span>
</div>
</div>
