---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 4.5 System Shutdown
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What happens when you run <b class="fw-bold">init 0</b> at the shell?</li>
<li>How would you send a message to all users on the system without shutting the system down?</li>
<li>Which commands shut the system down immediately?</li>
<li>What command reboots the system after 15 minutes?</li>
<li>What is the purpose of the <b class="fw-bold">/etc/shutdown.allow</b> ?</li>
<li>How can you terminate the shutdown process after it is already running?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

<ul><li>Shut down immediately</li>
<li>Shut down with notification</li>
<li>Shut down and reboot</li></ul>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Exam</th>
  <th>Objective</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
  <td>
    1.3 Manage system startup and shutdown
    <ul>
      <li>Shut down and restart the system</li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 4.5.1 System Shutdown

### System Shutdown 00:00-00:29

As with any operating system, shutting it down is important. You want to ensure the system is shut down cleanly to avoid possible corruption. When a machine is properly shut down, it ensures all disk operations are completed, and all write operations are committed to disk. In this lesson, you'll learn how to properly shut down a Linux system and ensure consistency in the Linux file system.

### Examples of Unclean Shutdowns 00:29-01:13

There are many ways that you can uncleanly shut down the Linux system. You shouldn't do any of these. You could push and hold the power button on the front of the system. That's a hard shutdown. It doesn't give the operating system time to write pending disk writes to disk. You could pull the plug from the wall socket or flip the switch on the back of the power supply to shut it off. If your system's connected to a UPS, it's not properly configured and runs out of battery power, which is the same result as pulling the plug.

There are times when your system will lock up and become unresponsive. In those circumstances, you may have to resort to an unclean shutdown. These, however, should be the exception and not the rule.

### Using a UPS 01:13-02:06

If you have the ability to purchase an Uninterruptable Power Supply, it's strongly recommended. This is especially true if you live in an area where power outages occur. Usually, the UPS will power to the system and monitor it for several minutes providing enough energy to ride-through short power outages or provide adequate time to shut down the system properly. Generally, the UPS can connect to your system with a provided cable, and software on the workstation can receive a signal from the UPS to properly shut down the system automatically.

The UPS has batteries inside the unit. Those batteries are charged by power coming from an ordinary wall outlet. All the time, your workstation is being powered by the UPS, and should a power outage occur, the UPS will continue providing power to your system until the batteries drain.

### Shut Down Using Runlevels or Boot Targets 02:06-02:49

If you're using an older system, you may use the init daemon. However, on most modern systems, you're using systemd. Both the init command and systemctl commands work on most systems and perform many of the same functions. When using the init daemon, you can reboot or shut down the system by initializing a runlevel. Typing the command init 0 initializes runlevel 0, which halts a system. Runlevel 6 reboots a system. For systemd systems, you need to isolate a boot target. You can use the command systemtctl start poweroff.target to halt the system and use reboot.target to restart it.

### Shut Down Using Shell Commands 02:49-03:59

Linux provides multiple solutions that perform the same functions. That's especially true when using the command-line to manually enter commands. For instance, to shut down a system, you can enter the halt command. To reboot a system, you can use the reboot command. Both commands require root access, so you must precede these commands with sudo. If your logged-in user doesn't have sudo permissions, you may have to log in as the root user.

You can also use the shutdown command. Using the -H parameter halts the system, and -r reboots a system. You can also use the optional TIME parameter to specify a time or a delay for the shutdown. If you specify a time of day in 24-hour format, that's when the shutdown command will launch. If you specify a plus sign with a number (x), the system will delay x number of minutes. Specifying now launches the command immediately. Lastly, should you wish to cancel a delayed shutdown, use the command shutdown -c.

### Send Messages Using the wall Command 03:59-04:26

You can use the wall command to send messages to users to inform them of system events, such as a pending shutdown or reboot. To use the wall command, you can pipe your message using the echo command. First, echo your message using quotes, follow that with the pipe then the wall command. Here you see an example of the system administrator sending a message informing everyone the system's going down in 5 minutes.

### Summary 04:26-04:51

That's all we have for this lesson. In this lesson, we learned about the commands we can use to shut down or reboot the Linux system from the shell prompt. We talked about changing runlevels or boot targets. Then we reviewed the halt and reboot commands. Then we ended this lesson by looking at the shutdown and the wall commands.

## 4.5.2 Shut Down the System

### Shut Down the System 00:00-00:42

In this demonstration, we're going discuss shutting down Linux. There are actually many different methods you can use to shut down a Linux system. For example, if you're working in a graphical environment such as this, most distributions in the graphical interface will provide some way to shut down the system.

In this Ubuntu system, I can click on the menu up here, then click on Power Off / Log Out. That works great, and you're welcome to use that option if it's available. But be aware that many Linux systems, especially servers, will not have a graphical user interface installed, and you cannot use that option. For these systems, you need to know how to shut down the system from a shell.

### Command Line Shutdown 00:42-03:04

The shutdown command does what you'd expect: it shuts down your system. If I were to issue just a shutdown command, it would schedule the shutdown with a delay. Most Linux systems have a delay that's between 60 and 90 seconds. Let's cancel this.

You can also add your own delay. For example, we could say shutdown +5. The plus sign (+) followed by a number tells the shutdown command to start the process, but hold off of execution until the number of minutes specified passes. In this case, the shutdown command will run, but it won't actually shut down the system until five minutes have passed.

In addition, you can also add a message to everybody, basically giving them a warning that the system is going down, and if they're working on anything, they should close out and save their work so they don't lose anything. Let's open two terminal windows side by side. We're going to switch users to Daniel on one and have another one open with our TestOut user. When the command shutdown +5 please save your work is issued, you can see the wall message displayed on the other user's account. A canceled shutdown behaves the same way. If you don't provide any message, then a default message is displayed by itself. Either way, the end user is warned that something is going to happen, and they need to be aware of that and take the necessary precautions to keep from losing their work.

The shutdown command can also be used to reboot the system instead of just powering it off. To do that, we type shutdown, and then we use the -r option. As before, it will have a default timer. It's possible to skip the timer and do shutdown -r now, which will reboot the system now. This's also true of shutdown now.

The other switch you can use is halt. Halt instructs the hardware to stop all CPU functions and stay powered on with shutdown -H. It requires sudo privileges to run, so let's try running it with sudo. After my password is specified, you can see the system halts. The halt function may be useful if low-level maintenance is required. Halt was originally designed to stop all CPU functions and allow a user to manually push a button to power it off. However, everything in today's era should allow for an automatic shutdown when the correct command is issued.

### Summary 03:04-03:16

That's it for this demonstration. In this demo, we talked about how to shut down, halt the system, and reboot.

## 4.5.3 Use wall to Message Users

### Use wall to Message Users 00:00-00:45

In this demonstration, we're going to practice working with the wall utility. The wall utility is used to send a message to all logged in users on a Linux system. The name of this command is an acronym for "write all."

This is useful when managing a server where many users are logged in to the system simultaneously—especially if you need to shut the system down.

You may need to shut the system down to replace a component that just failed. You could use wall to send a message to all logged in users, informing them to save their information and log out.

Wall will only display a message on the Terminal window of logged-in users. Users working only from a GUI environment, with no Terminal window open, will not be able to see the messages.

### wall Command 00:45-01:15

To demonstrate this utility, I've opened two terminal windows. For the terminal on the left, I've switched to the root account. We will run the wall command from root. The second terminal window will simulate another user that is logged into the system.

This command may function differently, depending on the distribution, and version you are running.

For example, on some distributions, you can send a message to all users by running wall, and then in quotes, enter the message you want to send. On this distribution, that option is not supported.

### wall Command Using a File 01:15-02:30

The second option when using wall, is to send the message using the contents of a file. This can be useful for messages that need to be sent on a regular basis. That way you don't have to retype the same message every time.

Let's say our organization performs regular server maintenance Saturday night at midnight. Every Friday we want to remind users that they need to log out and save all their files before we take the server down for maintenance.

To create the file with prewritten text for the message, use a text editor, such as nano and create the message. Let's run nano message, to create our text file using the name of message.

Now I'll enter the desired text of, "Remember the server will be going down for maintenance Saturday night at midnight. Please save your work and log out before you leave on Friday."

Save the changes to the file and exit.

To send this message using the wall command, type wall message and press Enter.

In our second terminal, the message is displayed.

If you do not want the information of who sent the message, known as the banner, to be shown, run the same command, but add the -n option, for no banner.

When we press Enter, we see the message was sent, without displaying the banner.

### Summary 02:30-02:40

In this demonstration, we talked about how to use the wall command to send messages to all logged in users.

## 4.5.4 Shutdown Facts

Turning off a computer's power without executing the proper shutdown procedure can result in data loss and file system corruption. Linux provides several different shutdown options.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Shutdown process
- Common shutdown commands

### Shutdown Process

The system does the following when using the shutdown command to shut down a computer:

<ul>
<li>Sends a SIGTERM message to open programs and allows them to close.</li>
<li>Notifies logged-on users that the shutdown process has initiated and of the length of time before shutdown.</li>
<li>Blocks users from logging in to the system.</li>
<li>Shuts down all running processes and, afterward, the system itself.</li>
</ul>

### Common Shutdown Commands

The table below shows common commands for shutting down the system.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Function</th>
    <th>Examples</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -h now <br />halt</b>
      <br />
      <b>init 0 <br />systemctl isolate poweroff.target <br />systemctl isolate runlevel0.target</b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Shuts the system down immediately. Consider the following for the
      <b>shutdown</b> command:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>-h</b> specifies that the system halt or power off after shutdown.
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>now</b> forces the system to shut down without a delay.
        </li>
      </ul>
      <div>
        <div>
          <div>
            <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
<svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
            <div>
              <span>
                Any of these commands shuts the system down
                immediately.</span>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -r now <br />reboot <br />init 6 <br />systemctl isolate reboot.target <br />systemctl isolate runlevel6.target</b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Shuts the system down immediately and then reboots.
      <div>
        <div>
          <div>
            <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px">
<svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
            <div>
              <span>
                Any of these commands reboots the system
                immediately.</span>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -h <i>time message</i> <br />shutdown -r <i>time message</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Shuts the system down in the designated amount of time and sends a
      message.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -h +5</b>
      <b>System is going down</b> sends a message and shuts the system
      down in five minutes.
      <b><br />shutdown -h 22:00</b>
      shuts the system down at 10:00 p.m. <br />
      <b>shutdown -r +15</b> reboots the system in 15 minutes. <br />
      <b>shutdown -r 24:00</b>
      <b>System is going down at Midnight</b> sends a message and
      reboots the system at midnight.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -c <br />Ctrl+c</b>
    </td>
    <td>Cancels a pending shutdown.</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -rf <i>time</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      The <b>-r</b> parameter issues the reboot command.
      <br />
      The <b>-f</b> parameter stands for reboot fast and skips the fsck
      utility on reboot.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -rf</b> reboots the system and skips fsck.
      <b><br />shutdown -r +15</b>
      reboots the system in 15 minutes and uses fsck.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -k <i>message</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>Sends a warning message, but does not shut down the system.</td>
    <td>
      <b>shutdown -k Please log out of the system</b>
      sends the message to logged in users, but does not actually shut
      the system down.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
