---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 12.4 IPv6 Overview
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

<ul><li>What is the difference between stateful and stateless DHCPv6?</li>
<li>What are the two parts of a 128-bit IPv6 address?</li>
<li>How do static full and static partial assignments differ?</li>
<li>What process is used to configure the IPv6 address for each interface?</li>
<li>What is a unique local address?</li></ul>

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure IPv6 addresses

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="terms">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Term</th>
    <th>Definition</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>
      Neighbor Discovery Protocol
      <br />
      (NDP)
    </td>
    <td>
      A protocol used to automatically generate the interface ID and learn
      the subnet prefix and default gateway.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Stateful DHCPv6</td>
    <td>
      The process of obtaining the following from a DHCP server:
      <ul>
        <li>An IPv6 address</li>
        <li>A gateway address</li>
        <li>
          Other IP configuration information, such as the DNS server IP
          address
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>The DHCP server tracks the status (or state) of the client.</p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Stateless DHCPv6</td>
    <td>
      Stateless DHCPv6 does not provide the client with an IP address and
      does not track the status of each client but, instead, is used to
      supply the client with the DNS server IP address. Stateless DHCPv6
      is most useful when used in conjunction with stateless
      autoconfiguration.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Prefix</td>
    <td>The first 64 bits of an IPv6 address.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Interface ID</td>
    <td>
      The last 64 bits of an IPv6 address. This is the unique address
      assigned to an interface.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>TestOut Linux Pro</td>
    <td>
      3.1 Configure networking
      <ul>
        <li>Find the IP address or DNS of a host</li>
        <li>Enable or disable network interfaces</li>
        <li>Configure IP addresses</li>
        <li>Troubleshoot an IP configuration</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 12.4.1 IPv6 Addressing

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

IPv6 Addressing 00:00-00:18
In this lesson, we're going to look at the IPv6 network protocol. Currently, the world's supply of registered IPv4 addresses is exhausted. To correct this, the IP version 6 protocol, or IPv6, is being rolled out throughout the world.

IPv6 00:18-02:06
All Linux distributions support both IPv4 and IPv6. Instead of using 32 bits to define an IP address, like IPv4 does, IPv6 uses 128 bits to define an IPv6 address. This allows for a practically limitless number of addresses.

IPv6 addresses are composed of eight, four-character, hexadecimal numbers. Each one of these is called a quartet. And these quartets are separated by a colon.

With hexadecimal, we're dealing with 16 numbers, starting with zero through 9, and then A through F. And then we start over. That's why there are letters in this IPv6 address.

An IPv6 address is divided into two parts—much like an IPv4 address—with a network portion of the address, and a host portion of the address.

The first half of an IPv6 address—64 bits—is the prefix, and this is composed of the network address as well as the subnet address for the IP network. Because of the huge address space available with IPv6 addresses, we don't need to create all the custom subnet masks that we did with IPv4. Instead, pretty much everybody just uses a 64-bit prefix. There are exceptions, but they are kind of rare. Therefore, at the end of the address, we can just put /64 to indicate that our prefix is 64 bits long.

As with IPv4, the last part of the address is host portion or what we call the interface ID. This is the unique portion that is assigned to an individual host. If we have two hosts on the same network segment, and we want them to be able to communicate with each other using IPv6, then the prefix has to be the same on both systems, and their interface IDs have to be unique.

IPv6 Addresses Abbreviation 02:06-04:17
Because these IPv6 addresses are so incredibly long, you will frequently see them abbreviated.

This is done by eliminating all the long strings of multiple zeros that frequently occur in an IPv6 address. For example, consider this address. We have these first two quartets that are populated with numbers greater than zero. This quartet, this quartet, this quartet, and this quartet just have zeros in them.

Well, we don't necessarily need to see all those zeros. We can omit them by putting a double colon between where the zeros start and where the zeros end. That allows us to use a much shorter IPv6 address, but we still know that it's a full IPv6 address because we know that everything between these two colons is a zero.

There are a couple of things that you have to remember about in-line zero suppression, as we call it. First, you can suppress a quartet only if it contains nothing but zeros.

For example, here we have a zero in the first quartet, and we have two zeros right here in the second quartet. So, you might be inclined to start your suppression right here and go all the way over to here. Well, you can't do that because you have to look at the entire number in the quartet, not just the zeros within it.

Because we have a number of CD00, we actually have a number in that quartet which is greater than zero; therefore, we cannot start the zero suppression right there. The other thing you have to be aware of is the fact that you can use suppression only once within an IPv6 address.

If we had a number right here, instead of being 0000, let's say this is 0BAD, "oh bad." In this situation, you might be tempted to use a double suppression to suppress the zeros here and here, put the 0BAD, and then do another suppression right here to get rid of those zeros. We can't do that.

You can do one or the other, but not both. The general rule is to suppress the longest string of zeros. In this situation, you would suppress these zeros with a double colon, and then you would leave these zeros intact. Because remember, you can suppress only one set of zeros.

Global Unicast IPv6 Addresses 04:17-06:28
As you can see, IPv6 is quite a bit more complex than IPv4.

There are three major types of IPv6 addresses that you have to be familiar with: global unicast, unique local, and link-local. We're going to talk about global unicast addresses first.

Global unicast IPv6 addresses function in a similar manner to public registered IPv4 addresses. Basically, these are globally unique, registered, assigned IPv6 addresses.

Typically, an organization that wants to deploy IPv6 will be assigned, by IANA, a registered unique global routing prefix, which is basically the equivalent to an IPv4 network address. This global routing prefix is 48 bits long.

Keep in mind that every global routing prefix used on a public network, such as the internet, has to be globally unique. This means that nobody in the world should be using the same global routing prefix. This ensures that every single IPv6 address assigned to individual network hosts is globally unique as well.

The global routing prefix that gets assigned to you is usually 48 bits long. But remember that just about everybody uses a 64-bit prefix with IPv6 addresses. What do you do with the remaining 16 bits? Well, you can use those to create your own subnets. 2 to the 16th power is over 65,000, and you probably won't need that many subnets.

Because there is a global routing prefix assigned to our organization, every single subnet within your organization uses that same unique global routing prefix. And each could have a different value over here in the subnet portion of the prefix, depending upon which subnet they are in.

The focus with global unicast IPv6 addresses is that global routing prefix we've been talking about. The actual interface IDs we can assign whatever we want, to whoever we want, within the organization. This part, the global routing prefix, ensures the global uniqueness that we need.

When you're implementing IPv6, you don't have to use a global unicast address if you don't want to.

Unique Local IPv6 Addresses 06:28-08:08
If appropriate, you could implement unique local addressing instead. Unique local IPv6 addresses are similar to private IPv4 addresses, that are normally used for private networks that are not connected directly to the public network. You would use a NAT router to translate them to the internet. Basically, with NAT, we translate a unique local address and into a global unique address.

You can always recognize a unique local IPv6 address by the first two characters in the first quartet. The first eight bits of unique local addresses always use a prefix that begins with FC or FD. Then the next 40 bits within the prefix are used for the global ID, which is just a randomly generated number.

The goal here, because it's randomly generated, is to create a high probability of global uniqueness. We're not guaranteeing global uniqueness, but because the number is so big, there's a pretty high probability that it's going to be globally unique.

In essence, unique local addresses are actually designed to be globally unique, even though they can't be used on the internet. Then the remaining 16 bits within the prefix is used for creating your own subnets, just like we did with global unique IPv6 addresses. And then the rest of the address is used for assigning to individual hosts.

The key thing to remember about unique local addresses is that they're not registered, so you don't actually have to go apply for one and have it assigned to you. You can use whatever unique local IPv6 address you want, as long as it begins with FD or FC.

Before we end, we need to look at one more type of IPv6 address.

Link Local IPv6 Addresses 08:08-09:43
This is one you're probably going to work with a lot. It's the link-local address. IPv6 uses a special unicast address called the link-local address just for communications within the local network segment—on the local network only.

Most network routers are configured to not automatically forward packets addressed to link-local addresses on other subnets. That means that it can't be routed, and as such, link-local addresses cannot be used for communications between hosts that reside on different network segments.

Link-local addresses are used for automatic address configuration, discovering neighboring devices, and they can be reused really well within the network segment for router-less subnets.

A link-local address will always begin with FE8, FE9, FEA, or FEB. These are the first 10 bits of the address. The entire link-local prefix is 16 bits long. That's the first quartet. And then the next 48 bits comprise the link-local ID.

Together, this comprises the local network address. Then we assign individual hosts the interface ID, just like we did with the other two types of IPv6 addresses. Again, you will work a lot with link-local IPv6 addresses. Every time an IPv6 host turns on, it will have at least one link-local address automatically defined and assigned to that interface when the system comes up. Essentially, this allows a basic level of communication between all IPv6 hosts on the same network segment.

Summary 09:43-10:05
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we reviewed the IPv6 protocol. We first discussed the need for IPv6 and the solution it provides. We talked about the structure of an IPv6 address. And we finished by exploring the three different types of IPv6 addresses.

## 12.4.2 IPv6 Facts

IP version 6 (IPv6) is an updated version of the IP protocol that is designed to address the shortage of registered IPv4 addresses. An IPv6 address is a 128-bit binary number. A sample IPv6 IP address looks like this: 35BC:FA77:4898:DAFC:200C:FBBC:A007:8973

This lesson covers the following topics:

- IPv6 address features
- IPv6 address components
- IPv6 address types

### IPv6 Address Features

The following list describes the features of an IPv6 address:

<ul><li>The address is made up of 32 hexadecimal numbers, organized into eight quartets.</li>
   <li>The quartets are separated by colons.</li>
   <li>Each quartet is represented as a hexadecimal number between 0 and FFFF. Each quartet represents 16-bits of data (FFFF =
    1111 1111 1111 1111).</li>
   <li>Leading zeros can be omitted in each section. For example, the quartet 0284 could also be represented by 284.</li>
   <li>Addresses with consecutive zeros can be expressed more concisely by 
	substituting a double-colon for the group of zeros.
    <ul><li>FEC0:0:0:0:78CD:1283:F398:23AB</li>
     <li>FEC0::78CD:1283:F398:23AB (concise form)</li></ul></li>
   <li>If an address has more than one consecutive location where one or more quartets are all zeros, only one location can be
    abbreviated. For example, FEC2:0:0:0:78CA:0:0:23AB could be abbreviated as:
    <ul><li>FEC2::78CA:0:0:23AB or</li>
     <li>FEC2:0:0:0:78CA::23AB (but <i class="fs-italicize">not</i> FEC2::78CA::23AB)</li></ul></li>
<li>The 128-bit address contains two parts.</li></ul>

### IPv6 Address Components

An IPv6 address is constructed of two major component as described below:

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
  <th>Component</th>
  <th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
  <td>Prefix</td>
  <td>
    The first 64 bits are known as the prefix.
    <ul>
      <li>
        The 64-bit prefix can be divided into various parts, with each
        part having a specific meaning. Parts in the prefix can identify
        the geographic region, the ISP, the network, and the subnet.
      </li>
      <li>
        The prefix length identifies the number of bits in the relevant
        portion of the prefix. To indicate the prefix length, add a
        forward slash (/) followed by the prefix length number. Full
        quartets with trailing 0s in the prefix address can be omitted
        (for example, 2001:0DB8:4898:DAFC::
        <b>/</b> 64).
      </li>
      <li>
        Because addresses are allocated based on physical location, the
        prefix generally identifies the location of the host. The 64-bit
        prefix is often referred to as the global routing prefix.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td>Interface ID</td>
  <td>
    The last 64 bits are the interface ID. This is the unique address
    assigned to an interface.
    <ul>
      <li>
        Addresses are assigned to interfaces (network connections), not
        to the host. Technically, the interface ID is not a host
        address.
      </li>
      <li>
        In most cases, individual interface IDs are not assigned by
        ISPs, but are rather generated automatically or managed by site
        administrators.
      </li>
      <li>
        Interface IDs must be unique within a subnet, but can be the
        same if the interface is on different subnets.
      </li>
      <li>
        On Ethernet networks, the interface ID can be automatically
        derived from the MAC address. Using the automatic host ID
        simplifies administration.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### IPv6 Address Types

In IPv6, all interfaces are required to have an address, and interfaces can have more than one address. IPv6 identifies the following types of addresses:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Address Type</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Link-local</td>
    <td>
      Link-local addresses are addresses that are valid on only the
      current subnet.
      <ul>
        <li>
          Link-local addresses have a FE80::/10 prefix. This includes any
          address beginning with FE8, FE9, FEA, or FEB.
        </li>
        <li>
          All nodes must have at least one link-local address, although
          each interface can have multiple addresses.
        </li>
        <li>
          Routers never forward packets destined for link-local addresses
          to other subnets.
        </li>
        <li>
          Link-local addresses are used for automatic address
          configuration, neighbor discovery, or for subnets that have no
          routers.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Unique local</td>
    <td>
      Unique local addresses are private addresses used for communication
      within a site or between a limited number of sites. In other words,
      unique local addressing is commonly used for network communications
      within an organization that do not cross a public network. They are
      the equivalent of private addressing in IPv4.
      <ul>
        <li>
          Unique local addresses have a FC00::/7 prefix. Currently,
          however, the 8th bit is always set to 1 to indicate that the
          address is local (and not global). Thus, addresses beginning
          with FC or FD are unique local addresses.
        </li>
        <li>
          Following the prefix, the next 40 bits are used for the global
          ID. The global ID is generated randomly so that there is a high
          probability of uniqueness on the entire internet.
        </li>
        <li>
          Following the global ID, the remaining 16 bits in the prefix are
          used for subnet information.
        </li>
        <li>
          Unique local addresses are likely to be globally unique, but are
          not globally routable. Unique local addresses might be routed
          between sites by a local ISP.
        </li>
        <li>
          Earlier IPv6 specifications defined a site-local address that
          was not globally unique and had a FEC0::/10 prefix. The
          site-local address has been replaced with the unique local
          address.
        </li>
        <li>
          Because unique local addresses are not registered with IANA,
          they cannot be used on a public network (such as the internet)
          without address translation.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Global unicast</td>
    <td>
      The process for designing a network addressing scheme when using
      unique local addresses is similar to that used for global unicast
      addresses. The key difference is how the prefix is defined. Because
      the address range is not registered, a global routing prefix does
      not have to be requested from an ISP. Instead, each organization
      defines the prefix to be used for their organization. However, there
      are several requirements that need to be observed when doing so. As
      with global unicast addressing, using this addressing scheme allows
      organizations to define a large number (2
      <sup>16</sup>
      ) of IPv6 subnets.
      <p>
        Global unicast addresses are addresses that are assigned to
        individual interfaces that are globally unique (unique throughout
        the entire internet). Global unicast addresses are any addresses
        that are not link-local, unique local, or multicast addresses.
      </p>
      <p>
        Originally, ISPs assigned global unicast addresses with a 2000::/3
        prefix (this includes any address beginning with a 2 or a 3).
        However, this was later amended so that all IPv6 addresses that
        haven't been specifically reserved for other purposes are defined
        as global unicast addresses. The global routing prefix assigned to
        an organization by an ISP is typically 48 bits long (/48).
        However, it could be as short as /32 or as long as /56, depending
        upon the ISP. Using this addressing scheme allows organizations to
        define a large number (2
        <sup>16</sup>
        ) of IPv6 subnets.
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Loopback</td>
    <td>
      The local loopback address for the local host is 0:0:0:0:0:0:0:1
      (also identified as ::1 or ::1/128). The local loopback address is
      not assigned to an interface. It can be used to verify that the
      TCP/IP protocol stack has been properly installed on the host.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<div class="to-info-box-body">
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
<div class="to-info-box-body-content">
  <span>There are no broadcast addresses in IPv6. IPv6 multicast addresses are used instead of broadcast addresses.</span>
</div>
</div>

## 12.4.3 Configure IPv6 Addresses

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Configure IPv6 Addresses 00:00-00:29
We're going to explore how to configure IPv6 addresses in Linux. We'll be working as root for these configurations.

Let's view our current IP configurations by running ip a. This is short for the IP address command. We see that we already have an IPv6 address assigned. This is a link-local IP address. Most Linux distributions will have a link-local IPv6 address configured by default.

Link-local addresses are valid only on the current subnet and always begin with fe80.

Use Link-local Addresses 00:29-01:02
Link-local addresses aren't used much. IPv6 routers don't forward IPv6 packets that are addressed to link-local addresses. The traffic stays on the same local network or subnet. All IPv6 hosts need at least one link-local address, and we can add additional IPv6 addresses later.

Link-local addresses are used for automatic address configuration, Neighbor Discovery, and they can be used for host-to-host addressing when on a network without routers.

Add a Unique Local IPv6 01:02-01:24
We're going to add unique local IPv6 addresses to our interfaces. Unique local IPv6 addresses are similar to private IP addresses with IPv4. They're designed to communicate with devices within a network, not on the internet. If we want to connect the network that uses unique local addressing to the internet, we have to implement network address translation for IPv6.

Add Unique Local IPv6 Addresses to an Interface 01:24-02:01
We're going to add a unique local IPv6 address to the interface. We'll type, ip -6 a add fc00::2/64 dev ens33 Unique local IPv6 addresses always begin with fc00. The double colons within an IPv6 address shorten the address instead of typing blocks of zeros. We're going to assign a host address of 2. And we're going to use a 64-bit prefix with this address. Press Enter, and we've now configured a static IPv6 address.

Make Address Assignments Persistent across Reboots 02:01-03:09
One problem with our current configuration is that the IPv6 address isn't persistent. When we shut down or reboot the system or disable and re-enable the network interface, we'll lose the IPv6 address.

To make these address assignments persistent across reboots, we need to edit the interface's configuration file. Change directories to the /etc/netplan/ directory. Using the ls command, we see a configuration file here named 00-installer-config.yaml. This file can be named differently on your installation. Open the file with a text editor. We'll add our IPv6 address below our static IPv4 address. Type - fc00::2/64.

Write the changes to the file and exit the editor. Then we run netplan apply. When we run ip a again, we see the new static IPv6 address. In a working environment, we'd also configure a default gateway and DNS servers with IPv6 addresses. The current configuration would only allow us to communicate on our local network.

Summary 03:09-03:18
In this demonstration, we explored how to assign IPv6 addresses to a Linux host.

## 12.4.4 IPv6 Configuration Facts

There are a number of ways that an IPv6 address can be configured.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- IPv6 configuration methods
- IPv6 configuration process

### IPv6 Configuration Methods

An IPv6 address can be configured using any one of the following methods:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Method</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Static full assignment</td>
    <td>
      Static full assignment is where the entire 128-bit IPv6 address and
      all other configuration information is statically assigned to the
      host.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Static partial assignment</td>
    <td>
      Static partial assignment is where the prefix is statically assigned
      and the interface ID uses the modified EUI-64 format derived from
      the MAC address.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Stateless autoconfiguration</td>
    <td>
      Stateless autoconfiguration is where clients automatically generate
      the interface ID and learn the subnet prefix and default gateway
      through Neighbor Discovery Protocol (NDP). NDP uses the following
      messages for autoconfiguration:
      <ul>
        <li>
          Router solicitation (RS) is a message sent by the client to
          request that the routers respond.
        </li>
        <li>
          Router advertisement (RA) is a message sent by the router
          periodically and in response to RS messages to inform clients of
          the IPv6 subnet prefix and the default gateway address.
        </li>
      </ul>
      NDP is also used by hosts to discover the address of other
      interfaces on the network, replacing the need for Address Resolution
      Protocol (ARP).
      <div>
        <div class="to-info-box">
          <div class="to-info-box-body">
            <div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
            <div class="to-info-box-body-content">
              <span>
                Even though NDP provides enough information for the
                addressing of the client and for clients to learn the
                addresses of other clients on the network, NDP does not
                provide the client with DNS server information or other IP
                configuration information besides the IP address and the
                default gateway.</span>
            </div>
          </div>
        </div>
      </div>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DHCPv6</td>
    <td>
      IPv6 uses an updated version of DHCP (called DHCPv6) that operates
      in one of two different modes:
      <ul>
        <li>
          Stateful DHCPv6 is used when the DHCP server provides each
          client with the IP address, default gateway, and other IP
          configuration information (such as the DNS server IP address).
          The DHCP server tracks the status (or state) of the client.
        </li>
        <li>
          Stateless DHCPv6 does not provide the client with an IP address
          and does not track the status of each client, but rather is used
          to supply the client with the DNS server IP address. Stateless
          DHCPv6 is most useful when used in conjunction with stateless
          autoconfiguration.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

### IPv6 Configuration Process

When a host starts up, it uses the following process to configure the IPv6 address for each interface:

<ol>
<li>
  The host generates an IPv6 address using the link-local prefix
  (FE80::/10) and modifying the MAC address to get the interface ID. For
  example, if the MAC address is 20-0C-FB-BC-A0-07, the link-local address
  for the interface would be: FE80::220C:FBFF:FEBC:A007.
</li>
<li>
  The host then sends a neighbor solicitation (NS) message addressed to
  its own link-local address to see if the address it has chosen is
  already in use.
  <ul>
    <li>
      If the address is in use, the other network host responds with a
      neighbor advertisement (NA) message. The process stops and manual
      configuration of the host is required.
    </li>
    <li>
      If the address is not in use (no NA message), the process continues.
    </li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
  The host waits for a router advertisement (RA) message from a router to
  learn the prefix.
  <ul>
    <li>
      If an RA message is not received, the host sends out a router
      solicitation (RS) message addressed to all routers on the subnet
      using the multicast address FF02::2.
    </li>
    <li>
      The router sends out an RA message addressed to all interfaces on
      the subnet using the multicast address FF02::1.
    </li>
    <li>
      If no routers respond, the host attempts to use stateful DHCPv6 to
      receive configuration information.
    </li>
  </ul>
</li>
<li>
  The RA message contains information that identifies how the IPv6 address
  and other information is to be configured. Possible combinations are:
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th class_="firstTableHeader" scope="col" class="fw-bold">
          Configuration Method
        </th>
        <th scope="col" class="fw-bold">Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>Stateful autoconfiguration</td>
        <td>
          Obtains the interface ID, subnet prefix, default gateway, and
          other configuration information from a DHCPv6 server.
          <br />
          The host sends out a REQUEST message addressed to the multicast
          address FF02::1:2 to request this information from the DHCPv6
          server.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>Stateless autoconfiguration</td>
        <td>
          Sets the interface ID automatically.
          <br />
          Gets the subnet prefix and default gateway from the RA message.
          <br />
          Gets DNS and other configuration information from a DHCPv6
          server.
          <br />
          The host sends out an INFORMATION-REQUEST message addressed to
          the multicast address FF02::1:2 to request this information from
          the DHCPv6 server.
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</li>
<li>
  If a manual address or stateful autoconfiguration is used, the host
  sends an NS message to make sure that the address is not already in use.
  If stateless autoconfiguration is used, the NS message at this step is
  unnecessary, because the interface ID has already been verified in step
  2.
</li>
</ol>
