---
lang: zh-CN
title: Section 12.5 Routing Configuration
description: some description
---

As you study this section, answer the following questions:

- What is the role of a router?
- Which file contains the complete routing table on the system?
- How can you make the default gateway persistent?
- Which command sets the default route on the system?

In this section, you will learn to:

- Configure the default route

Key terms for this section include the following:

<table class="”terms”">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Key Terms</th>
    <th>Definitions</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Router</td>
    <td>
      A hardware device on a network that analyzes the contents of data
      packets sent from a host on the same network or sent from another
      router. If the destination host is on the router's network, the
      router forwards the packets to the host. If the destination host is
      not on the router's network, the packet is forwarded to another
      router.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Default gateway</td>
    <td>
      A router that allows hosts on one network to communication with
      hosts on another network, including the internet.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Routing table</td>
    <td>
      A database maintained by a router to determine where to send data on
      a network.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

This section helps you prepare for the following certification exam objectives:

<table class="objectives">
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Exam</th>
    <th>Objective</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CompTIA Linux+ XK0-005</td>
    <td>
      1.5 Given a scenario, use the appropriate networking tools or
      configuration files
      <ul>
        <li>
          Interface management
          <ul>
            <li>
              iproute2 tools
              <ul>
                <li>ip</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>
              net-tools
              <ul>
                <li>route</li>
              </ul>
            </li>
            <li>/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## 12.5.1 Routing Configuration Part 1

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Routing Configuration 00:00-00:21
In this lesson, we'll cover how to configure routing information on a Linux system.

Let's begin by discussing how routing works on an IP network. Routers operate at the network layer of the OSI model.

They connect various networks together.

How Routing Functions 00:21-05:01
In this example, we have a host here that needs to deliver data to the host there.

They're connected by multiple routers that route IP traffic. The data passes first to this router, then this router decides where to send it next. Then this router, then this next one, and finally the data is delivered to the destination system.

The router hardware itself-- for example, this one-- could be just a computer system with two or three network interfaces installed, one connected to each network segment. Or, more than likely, it's a specialized hardware appliance dedicated solely to routing.

One of the key jobs performed by these routers is determining the best way to get information to the right destination host.

Let's go back to hosts A and B again. We need to get data from A to B, but there are multiple routes the data could take. It could go to this router, this router, this router, this router, and then the destination. Alternatively, it could go from this router to this router, this router, this router, and this router. Another option would be to send it to this router then this router, this router, this router and finally to the destination. There's even a fourth option. We could send it to this router then this one, this one, then back down to this one, then this one, and this one. Which route is the best?

Well, there are a lot of variables in determining that. They can change minute to minute, meaning that one route might be the best at one time, and a different one might be best later. To do this, each router maintains a routing table that lists all available routes. Routers use various algorithms that evaluate such things as distance, cost, network bandwidth, network latency, network status, and so on, to determine which route is the best to get the data to the destination host.

Here's an important detail. Every Linux system, regardless of whether it's a workstation or a server or whatever, also maintains a routing table within its memory that determines where to send data on a network. They don't use routing protocols to determine the best route; that's the job of the router.

When you're configuring networking parameters on a Linux system, one of the key tasks you need to perform is to configure the default router address. The default router is the default location where packets go if they're addressed to a host outside the local network segment. For example, here we have a network, 192.168.1.0, and over here we have another network, 10.0.0.0. Let's suppose that host A needs to send data to host C. When A creates the IP packets, it sets as the destination address on those packets the IP address of this host over here 10.0.0.2. This is determined by looking at the destination address, specifically the destination network address. Host A says, "Hey, that destination host resides on the network of 10.0.0.0. I'm on 192.168.1.0. Um, that host isn't over here."

It knows that since the network address is different, the destination host resides on some other network but doesn't know where that network is. To get there, the host sends that packet to the default gateway router. How does host A know what the default gateway router address is-- in this case, 192.168.254? It's configured on the system. When you're setting up the host you give a default router gateway address parameter. You say, "If you don't know what to do with a packet because it resides on a different network segment, send it to 192.168.1.254."

On the other hand, if A needs to send a packet to B, which resides on the same network as A, then the default gateway isn't used. When 192.168.1.1 creates the IP packets that are going to 192.168.1.2, it looks at them and says, "Hey, I know where that guy lives. He's on my same street. He's on my same network--192.168.1.0. I'll just send it straight to him." So, the host doesn't send the packet to the default gateway for routing.

The default gateway router address is stored in the /etc/sysconfig/network/routes file on most distributions.

Role of etc/sysconfig/network/route File 05:01-08:30
Other distributions might save it in a different place. The syntax for specifying the default route is shown here. Enter default to indicate the default gateway route, then specify the IP address you want those packets sent to if they're addressed to a system on a different network.

In this case, we're setting the default gateway to the router with an IP address of 10.0.0.254. We can also specify the network adapter that this route applies to. It's possible for a Linux system to have two, or maybe even three, different network interfaces installed, and they could potentially all be connected to different networks. Therefore, they have different gateway routers. As such, we would have to put individual entries within this file for each network interface.

You can define additional routing information in the /etc/sysconfig/network/routes file. In the previous file we just looked at, you can specify only the default gateway. In this file, we can put routes to all kinds of different networks beyond just those that go to the default gateway. The syntax is shown here. Enter the destination, then specify which router the packets being addressed to this network should go to. In this case, any packet addressed to a host on the 192.168.2.0 network needs to be sent to the router that has an IP address of 10.0.0.1.

The idea here is that this router knows how to get whatever data we're sending to it over to this network and to the destination host. The netmask parameter specifies the netmask for the destination network over here. In this case, it's 255.255.255.0. The fourth column specifies which interface we're talking about. In this case, we're applying this route to the ens32 interface. If you don't specify an interface, the route will be applied to all interfaces.

Before we go on, I need to point out that you can also configure the default gateway in this file. Instead of specifying a network address in the first column, you would specify the text default. By specifying default, we're saying any network that we don't know how to get to goes to this particular router. In this configuration, we're sending packets addressed only to the 192.168.2.0 network to this particular router. Notice that there is a fifth column over here-- the TYPE column. It's an optional column used to specify the route type.

Here's an important point. If you modify this file-- say, open it up in a text editor and add a new route to it—it won't be applied until your network interface is restarted. In other words, this file is not read dynamically every time a routing decision needs to be made. It's read only when the interface comes up.

So, if you make a change, take your interface down – such as with the ifdown command – then bring it back up with the ifup command. At which point, the routes file will be reread, and your routing table in memory will be updated with the new information.

Summary 08:30-08:51
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed how to manage route settings on a Linux system by looking at the role of the /etc/sysconfig/network/routes file. We'll learn about managing route settings with commands in a later lesson.

## 12.5.2 Routing Configuration Part 2

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Routing Configuration 00:00-00:26
In a previous lesson we discussed how to manage route settings on a Linux system by using the /etc/sysconfig/network/routes file. Now you need to be familiar with how to manage routes using the route command. You can use it to either display or modify the routing table on your Linux system.

route 00:26-03:31
If you enter route without any options, such as we've done here, the current routing table is displayed. Here, you can see we have an entry for a default route. Any packets we don't know where to send, because we're not sure where the network is, are sent to the router with an IP address of 10.0.0.255. That applies for our ens32 interface.

You can also add routes to the host routing table using the route command. The syntax is shown here. Enter route add -net, followed by the network address of the route you want to create; netmask, followed by the subnet mask of this network over here; gw, which stands for gateway, followed by the name of the router that connects us to that network.

I'll show an example down here. Enter route add -net, and create a route to the 192.168.2.0 network, which has a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0. To get to that network, first send packets to the router, then the gateway (gw) on our network segment which is 10.0.0.1. Then let that router figure out how to get those packets to this network. Once done, I run the route command again, and see the new route is added. Notice we have two possible entries here – the default route and a route specific to this network.

If my system creates an IP packet addressed to a host on the 192.168.5.0 network, this route isn't used. Instead, the default route will send the packet to this gateway. On the other hand, if I create an IP packet and address it to a host on the 192.168.2 network, it'll be sent to this router instead, not to the default gateway.

You could also use the route command to remove a route from the routing table. To do this, enter route del instead of route add, and the rest of the parameters are the same. In this example, I'm deleting the route to the 192.168.2.0 network, and I specify the same parameters I did before for the netmask and gateway. Then, when I run route, the route to that network is now gone.

You can also use the route command to set the default route. The command is slightly different than what we did before. Enter route add, then specify default. We're not specifying any particular network segment, just all network segments we don't know how to reach. Then enter gw, followed by the address of your default gateway. An example is shown here: route add default gw 10.0.0.254.

Any changes you make to your routing table with the route command are not persistent. If you want the route changes to be persistent across reboots, edit your /etc/sysconfig/network/routes file and to make them static.

ip 03:31-04:47
The last thing we'll cover in this lesson is how to configure routes with the ip command. For example, if you want to view your routing table, type ip route show at the shell prompt.

You could also use the ip command to add a static route to the routing table. Type ip route add, followed by the network address and its prefix. Then type via and enter the IP address of the router you want those packets sent to, dev, then the name of the network interface.

An example is shown down here. Enter ip route add 192.168.4.0/24, to specify the subnet mask, or prefix, then via, and the IP address of the router I want to reach, which is 10.0.0.254, then dev, followed by the name of the network interface this route applies to, ens32.

We can see the route added when we use the ip route show command. Here's the new route. You can also delete a route with the ip command. The syntax is ip route del, followed by the network address and its prefix. Now it's removed from the routing table.

Summary 04:47-05:08
That's it for this lesson. In this lesson, we discussed how to manage route settings on a Linux system. We talked about how to use the route command, and then ended by talking about how to manage routing using the ip command. I hope you'll practice using them. They'll be very helpful in your career.

## 12.5.3 Configure the Default Route

Click one of the buttons to take you to that part of the video.

Configure the Default Route 00:00-00:12
In this demo, we're going to discuss the best way to configure routes. We'll look at how to set the default route and then how to set routes to other networks. Let's jump right in.

Set the Default Route 00:12-00:36
If your system is configured to use a dynamic IP address from a DHCP server, you probably won't need to set the default route. In most cases, the default gateway router address is automatically assigned with the DHCP option. But if your system uses static IP addressing, you'll need to manually assign the default gateway router address. You can set this in two different ways: persistently or non-persistently.

Assign a Persistent Default Route 00:36-01:54
To persistently assign a default route, add the changes in the appropriate networking configuration file. Every time the system boots, the default route will be applied. Different Linux distributions have different files, though, so it's important to do some research into the one you're using.

Using this Ubuntu 22.04 server with a GUI installed, I'll switch to the root user account to show you how this works. First, I switch over to the /etc/netplan/ directory. Using the ls command, you can see a configuration file here named 00-installer-config.yaml. I need to run ifconfig or ip a to find the name of my Ethernet adapter.

When I run the route command, you can see that a default gateway hasn't been set. The interface has been configured with a static IP address, but hasn't been configured with the default gateway router address yet. To add that, I need to edit that 00-installer-config.yaml configuration file. First, I add the routes: option to the ens33 configuration. Now I need to add the route with the following lines: -to: default and via: plus the default gateway IP address.

Apply the Default Gateway Address 01:54-02:31
I write the changes to the file and exit the editor. The changes are there in the configuration file now, but they're only read when the Ethernet interface is loaded. To apply the changes, I run sudo netplan apply.

This reloads the configuration file, and the gateway address is officially applied. When I run the route command again, you see that the default gateway is assigned. So any outgoing packets from the system that are addressed to hosts not on the 192.168.23.0 network are automatically sent to the router. Editing the configuration file like this sets the default route persistently. Now let's get into the non-persistent option.

Set the Default Route Non-Persistently from the Shell Prompt 02:31-03:00
We go back to the route command to start off. Be aware that any changes you make to the default gateway address using the route command won't be persistent. They'll be in effect only as long as the system stays running. If you reboot, the system will load the settings in the configuration file.

To temporarily edit the default route, enter route add default gw and then your default gateway's IP address. In my case here, the address is the same, and I don't need to run the command.

Add Other Routes 03:00-04:15
Besides the default route, you can set other routes if the packets need to go to different routers. Suppose that you wanted to add a route that has an address of 15.0.0.0, and you wanted those packets to be sent to a different router. You'd use the ip route command at the shell prompt. Remember that changes made with ip route aren't persistent, either.

So I enter ip route add and specify the network segment's IP address, which was 15.0.0.0. Then I specify the network's subnet mask, which is /8. Now I specify the gateway or router address that'll handle packets for the 15.0.0.0 network. This gateway has to be connected to my current network segment. I type via 192.168.23.251 and press Enter. When I type route, you see that the route has been added.

The ip route command can delete a route, too. To do that here, I enter ip route del followed by the network address, which was 15.0.0.0/8, and then the gateway—I use via 192.168.23.251 for that. When I run the route command again, you see that the route has been removed from the routing table.

Summary 04:15-04:36
That's it for this demonstration. We talked about how to configure routes from the shell prompt. We explored configuring the default route, both persistently and non-persistently. Then we talked about adding other routes to the routing table using the route and ip route commands.

## 12.5.4 Routing Facts

A router is a device that sends packets from one network to another. Routers receive packets, read their headers to find addressing information, and send the packets on to their correct destination on the network or the Internet.

This lesson covers the following topics:

- Routing tables
- Default router
- Commands to configure routing

### Routing Tables

Routers can forward packets through an internetwork by maintaining routing information in a database called a routing table. Every Linux system maintains a routing table in RAM and uses it to determine where to send data on a network.

The routing table typically contains the following information:

<ul><li>The address of a known network</li>
   <li>The interface or next hop router used to reach the destination network</li>
   <li>A cost value (also called a metric) that identifies the desirability of the route to the destination network (using
    distance, delay, or cost)</li>
<li>A timeout value that identifies when the route expires</li></ul>

### Default Router

The default router (also known as gateway router and default gateway router) is the router that network hosts forward packets to when:

<ul><li>The IP address of the destination host does not reside on the local network segment.</li>
<li>A route to the network where the destination host resides is not in the routing table of the sending host.</li></ul>

The default router IP address:

<ul>
<li>
  Must be configured on each host to allow internetwork communication.
  Without the default router, hosts will only be able to communicate with
  devices within the same subnet.
</li>
<li>
  Must be on the same subnet as the host computer. Routers have multiple
  network interface cards attached to multiple networks. When configuring
  the default router, choose the address on the local subnet.
</li>
<li>
  Is stored in the <b>/etc/sysconfig/network/routes</b> or the
  <b>/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/route- <i>interface</i></b>
  file, depending upon the distribution. Changes to this file will not
  take effect until the network interface is restarted.
</li>
</ul>

### Commands to Configure Routing

The table below shows common commands for configuring routing.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Command</th>
    <th>Function</th>
    <th>Example</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td><b>route add</b></td>
    <td>
      Adds a static route in the routing table. Use the following options:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b>default gw</b> - creates a route for the default router
        </li>
        <li><b>-net</b> - specifies a network address</li>
        <li><b>-host</b> - specifies a single host on the network</li>
        <li><b>reject</b> - installs a blocking route</li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>route add default gw 192.168.1.1</b> adds the default router
      192.168.1.1. <br />
      <b>route add -net 15.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0</b>
      <b>dev eth0</b> adds a route to the 15.0.0.0/8 network. <br />
      <b>route add -host 15.0.0.1 gw 10.0.20.1</b> adds a static route to
      the 15.0.0.1 host. <br />
      <b>route add -net 10.0.0.0 netmask 255.0.0.0 reject</b>
      installs a rejecting route for the 10.0.0.0/8 network.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>route del</b></td>
    <td>Deletes a static route in the routing table.</td>
    <td>
      <b>route del -net 172.18.0.0 netmask 255.255.0.0</b>
      deletes a route to the 17.18.0.0/16 network.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>route</b></td>
    <td>
      Views the routing table, including the default gateway address.
    </td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>ip route show</b></td>
    <td>Views routes in the routing table.</td>
    <td><b>ip route show</b> displays the current routing table.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><b>ip route add</b></td>
    <td>
      Adds a route to the routing table. Use the following options:
      <ul>
        <li>
          <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> network</i></b> - specifies the
          address of the remote network. Be sure to include the prefix of
          the network using CIDR notation
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>via <i>router_IP</i></b>
          - specifies the router to which packets addressed to the remote
          route should be sent
        </li>
        <li>
          <b>dev <i>interface</i></b>
          - specifies the network interface to which the new route will be
          applied
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>ip route add 192.168.1.0/24 via 10.0.0.1 dev ens32</b>
      adds a static route to the 192.168.1.0/24 network through a router
      with an IP address of 10.0.0.1. The route applies to traffic going
      through the ens32 network interface.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>
      <b>ip route del <i>network</i></b>
    </td>
    <td>
      Removes a route from the routing table. Replace
      <b><i class="c2 fs-italicize"> network</i></b> with the network
      address of the route to be removed. Be sure to include the prefix of
      the network using CIDR notation.
    </td>
    <td>
      <b>ip route del 192.168.1.0/24</b> removes the route to the
      192.168.1.0/24 network from the routing table.
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

<div class="to-info-box-body">
<div class="to-icon large" aria-hidden="true" style="width: 20px;"><svg aria-hidden="true" focusable="false" data-prefix="fal" data-icon="circle-info" class="svg-inline--fa fa-circle-info" role="img" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 512 512"><path fill="currentColor" d="M256 32a224 224 0 1 1 0 448 224 224 0 1 1 0-448zm0 480A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512zM208 352c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l96 0c8.8 0 16-7.2 16-16s-7.2-16-16-16l-32 0 0-112c0-8.8-7.2-16-16-16l-40 0c-8.8 0-16 7.2-16 16s7.2 16 16 16l24 0 0 96-32 0zm48-168a24 24 0 1 0 0-48 24 24 0 1 0 0 48z"></path></svg></div>
<div class="to-info-box-body-content">
  <span>
    iprout2 is a collection of utilities that can be used in monitoring
    networking including routing. The iproute2 collection contains the
    following command-line utilities: arpd, bridge, ctstat, dcb, devlink,
    ip, lnstat, nstat, rdma, routef, routel, rtacct, rtmon, rtstat, ss, tc
    and tipc.</span>
</div>
</div>


